POCKET MANUAL

HOMEOPATHIC
MATERIA MEDICA

COMPRISING
THE CHARACTERISTIC AND GUIDING
SYMPTOMS OF ALL REMISDIES
[CLINICAL AND PATHOGENETIC]
By
WILLIAM BOERICKE, M. D.

Fist Professor of Homeopathic Materia Medica «nd Therapeutics
at the University of California; Author of (A Compend of
the Prinuples of Homaopachy;"" Translator of the
Sixth Edition of Hal.nemann's Organon

EIGHTH EPITION
REVISED AND ENLARGED

WITH THE ADDITION OF A REPERTORY BY

OSCAR E. BOERICKE, A. B., M. D.

PUBLISHED BY
BOERICKE & RUNYON
NEW YORK
1922
PREFACE TO THE EIGHTH EDITION

Twenty years ago, the first edition of this work was
presented to the profession. It seemed to meet a want
and fill a special niche in the literature of Homeopathic
Materia Medica, for since then seven editions, each one
enlarged, “have been called for and published.

The time elapsed since the last edition was issued is
so short that but few additions could be made, but these
are impo:tant, émbodying the results of the experiments
and provings of the Hering Research Laboratory of
Philadelphia and Professor Hinsdale’s Laboratory ex-
periments at the Ohio University and others that ap-
peared in our periodical literature.

Numeious recent verifications of our older symp-
tomatoiogy have also been incorporated, so that the hook
is thoroughly up to date, offering practically everything
that has been found of proved value in the clinical
eaperience of the school fur the past one hundred years.
While it unavoidably contains immature observations,
it also gives the largest collection of reliable, frequently
verihed symptoms of all medicines introduced in the
Homeopathic Materia Medica. The book 1 thus addi-
tional and supplementa) to other works on the subject.
I desire to express miy appreciation of the great aid
given by Dr. Oscar Boericke in seeing the hook through
the press by his painstaking and careful supervision.
In these days of increasing interest in repertorial work,
his Repertory should receive special attention, for it is
concise and admirably arranged and forms a most
important part of what, I trust, the profession will
continue to find this book to be—a practical handbook
of Homeopathic symptomatology for constant use.

Wi.iiAM Boericke, M. D.

San Francisco, January, 1922.
PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION

For many years the author has felt the need of a
pocket edition of our Materia Medica, containing the
scharacteristic and cardinal symptoms of all our
known remedies, arranged according to the Hahne-
mannian Schema for :eady reference. I herewith
offer the profession an attempt to supply this need,
of a handy mulium in parvo edition, to be used
at the bedside or consulted while making the daily
rounds,

This work contains the well-known verified char-
acteristics of almost every drug, besides other less
important symptoms essential for the selection of
the curative remedy, and thus it supplements every
other work on Materia Medica. In its present com-
pact form it contains the maximum number of  re-
liable Materia Medica facts in the minimum space. It
is, therefore, an epitome cf the whole Homacpathic
Matcria Medica, brought up to date by including the
scattered verifications found in our journalistic litera-
ture,

My part of the work has been mainly selective and
detective in the endeavor to complete as accurate and
practical a book as possible, guided, however, by the
experience of over twenty ycars as a general practitioner
and a teacher of Materia Medica.

The dosage recommended needs some apology, It is,
of course, suggestive only; more often to be wholly
disregarded. 1 have followed the lines of the earlier
Homeeopathists in this regard, and given what was then
considered the usual range of potency, to which I have
added my own experience and that of many observing
practitioners. As a teacher of Materia Medica I am
constantly importuned by students to suggest the po-
tency -— something tw start them with, at least.
vi PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION

The female symptoms throughout have been critically
examined and enriched by Professor James W. Ward,
the eminent gynzcologist and practitioner of wide ex-
perience. This adds much to the practical value of the
book, and I hereby desire to acknowledge my indebted-”
ness to Dr. Ward for this important aid and other
valuable hints and suggestions.

Jf students and younger practitioners could be en-
couraged to make use of this skeleton of dryg action,
and note the verifications occurring in their practice
and gradually enlarge the symptomatology by further
study and observation, a most useful and practical work
would soon be theirs. A general Index and Repertory
is in preparation, and will be published as a companion
volume.

Wu.iaM Borricke, M. D.

San Francisco, Mav, 1901.
PREFATORY NOTE TO THE REPERTORY

With the advent of the incomparable Eighth Edi-
tion of the progressive pocket Materia Medica, its
modest companion, the Repertory, has been com-
pletely remodelled and brought up to date, by embody-
ing much of the newly incorporated material. Many
of the Sections have been carefully rewritten, and,
with appropriate expansion, offer a more trust-worthy
guide tor the selection of the homeopathic remedy. A
few prefatory remarks, pertaining to the practical and
expeditious use of the repertorial contents, may assist in
clarifying a certain inevitable obscurity of plan.

Firstly, in conformity with established repertorial
methods, the division of the sections in somewhat the
old Hahnemannian order is adhered to, and may be
stated as follows: Mind; Head; Eyes; Ears, etc.

Secondly, for the ptirpose of convenience, solely,
headings and sub-headings and specific conditions or
symptoms comprised under the latter are arranged in
alphabetical order, and this is more or less consistently
adhered to throughout the entire work. For example,
under Mind the headings read, Awkward, brain-fag,
catalepsy, etc.; likewise the heading Delirium em-
braces its various phases in alphabctical order.

Thirdly, all headings when cxlensive im scope, e& gf.
Headache, are presented under definite captions in the
following order: Cause, Type, Location, Character of
pain, Concomitants, Modalities, i. ¢.. Aggravations and
Ameliorations. It is to be observed that some head-
ings include only a few, whereas others include all of
these divisions. This method has,been resorted to sim-
ply to facilitate the task of the use of the repertory.

Fourth, to preserve uniformity, the technical names
of diseases are bracketed, thereby assuming a sub-
sidiary place, which is in strict accord with the homeo-
Vili PREFATORY NOTE

pathic requirement, to prescribe for the symptoms of
each specitic case, and not for a mere name oi a dis-
ease. Of course, being a clinical and not a truly symp-
tomatological index (for which the practitioner and
student are referred to the monumental works of Kent,
Knerr and Clark) technical terms are often selected
as main headings, and when feasible, the more or less
complete symptoms constitute the sub-headings.

Fifthly, the remedies are arranged in elphatetical or-
der, and the tialics indicate the more frequently veri-
fied clinical remedy. The abbreviations of the remedies
are purely arbitrary and self-explanatory.

Lastly, it is only by the persistent use of one rep-
ertory, that its peculiar and intricate arrangement grad-
ually crystallizes itself in definite outline, in the mind
of the student of the same, and thus he attains the
ready ease and practical insight of the collator, thereby
rendering such a clinical hee line well-nigh indispensable
in our day of Jabor-saving devices.

Oscar E. Borricke, M. D.

Philadelpiia, Pa., January, 1922.
HOMCEOPATHIC
MATERIA MEDICA
HOMCOPATHIC
MATERIA MEDICA

ABIES CANADENSIS— PINUS CANADENSIS
(Hemlock Spruce)

Mucous membranes are affected by Abies Can. and
gastric symptoms are most marked, and a catarrhal
condition of the stomach is produced. There are pe-
culiar cravings and chilly seusations that are very char-
actertistic, especially for women with uterine displace-
ment, Right !ung and liver feel small and hard. Gleet.
Debility, wants to lie down all the time; skin cold and
clammy, hands cold; very faint.

Head. — Feels light-headed, tipsy.

Stomach. — Canine hunger with torpid liver. Guaw-
ing, hungry, faint feeling at the epigastrium. Great ap-
petite, craving for meat, pickles, radishes, turnips, arti-
chokes, coarse food. Tendency to eat far beyond
capacity for digestion. Burning and distention of stom-
ach and abdomen with palpitation. Pain in right shoul-
der-blade, and constipation, with burning in rectum.

Female. — Uterine displacements. Sore feeling at
fundus of uterus, relieved by pressure. Prostration;
wants to lie down all the time. Thinks wombs is soft
and feeble.

Fever. — Cold shiverings, as if blood were ice-water.
[Acon.] Chills run down back, Cold-water feeling be-
tween shoulders. [.dinmon. mur.] Skin clammy and
sticky. Night-sweat.

Dose. — First to third potency.
2 ABIES NIGRA

ABIES NIGRA
(Black Spruce)

A powerful and long-acting remedy, in various forms
of disease, whenever the characteristic stomach symp-
toms are present. Most of the symptoms are associated
with the gastric disturbances. Jn dyspeptic troubles of
the ayed, with functional heart symptoms; also after tea
or tobacco. Constipation

Mind. -— |Low-spirited. Dull during the day, wakeful
at night. Unable to think.

Stomach.-- Jain in stomach always comes on after
cating. Sensation of a lump that hurts, as if a hard-
boiled cug had lodged in the cardiac end of stomach;
continual distressing constriction just above the pit of
the stomach, as 1f everythmg were knotted up. Total
loss of appetite in morning, but great craving for food
at noon and wight. Offensive freatnh. Eructations,

Chest. —-- Painful sensation, as if something were
lodged iu the chest and had to be coughed up; worse
coughing; waterbrash succeeds cough. Choking sensa-
tion in throat. Dyspnaa. Sharp, cutting pain in heart;
heart’s action heavy and slow, tachycardia, bradycardia.

Back, -~ Pain in small of back. Rheumatic pains and
aching in bones,

Sleep, -— Wakeful and restless at night, with hunger.
Rad dreams.

Fever.— Alternate heat and cold; chronic intermit-
tent fever, with pain in stomach.

Modalities. — I]'orse after eating.

Relationship. -- Cumpare: (Lump in stomach —
China, Bryon. Pusat.) also other Conifers—Thuja, Sa-
bing, Cupressus (painful digestion) also Nur vom.
Kali carl,

Dose. — First to thirtieth potency.
ABROTANUM 3

ABROTANUM
(Southernwood)

A very useful remedy in marasmus, especially of
lower extremities only, yet with good appetite. Rhey-
matism followmg checked diarrhawa. Metastasis.» Uh
effects of suppressed conditions, especially in gouty sub-
jects. Tulercuious pertionitis, bLxudative pleurisy and
other exudative processes, After operation upon the.
chest for hydrothoray or empyimia, a pressing sensa-
tion reinains. Metastatic rheumatism, Great weakness:
after influenza. Agyravation of hemorrhoids when
rheumatism improves. Nosebleed and hydrocele in
boys.

Mind. — Cross, irritable, anxious, depressed.

Face. — Wrinkled, cold, dry, pale. Blue rings around
dull-looking eyes. Comedones, with emaciation, Nose-
hleed.  singtoma of the face.

Stomach. — Slimy taste. Appetite good, but emaca-
tion progresses. Food passes undigested. Pain in
stomach; worse at night; cutting, gnawing pain. Stom-
ach feels as if swimming in water; teels cold. Gnawing
hunger and whining. Indigestion, with vomiting of
large quantities of offensive fluid,

Abdomen. — Hard. lumps in ahdomen. Distended.
Alternate diarrhoea and = constipation. Hamorrhoids;
frequent urging; bloody stools; worse as rheumatic
pains abate. Ascarides. Oozing from umbilicus. Ser-
sation as if bowels were sinking down. t

Respiratory.— Raw feeling. Impeded respiration.
Dry cough following diarrhoea. Pain across chest; se-
vere in region of heart. '

Back. — Neck so weak cannot hold head up. Back
lame, weak, and painful. Pain in lumbar region ex-
4 ABROTANUM — ABSINTHIUM

tending along spermatic cord. Pain in sacrum, with
hemorrhoids.

Extremities. — Pain in shoulders, arms, wrists, and
ankles. Pricking and coldness in fingers and feet. Legs
greatly emaciated. Joints stiff and lame. Painful con-
traction of limbs. [Amm. mur.]

Skin. — Eruptions come out on face; are suppressed,
and the skin becomes purplish. Skin flabby and loose.
Furuncles. Falling out of hair. Itching chilblains.

Modalities. — Worse, cold air, checked secretions.
Better, motion.

Relationship. — Compare: Scrophularia; Bryonia;
Bensoic acid, in gout. Iodine, Natr. mur, in marasmus.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency,

ABSINTHIUM
(Common Wormwood)

A perfect picture of epileptiform seizure is produced
by this drug. Nervous tremors precede attack. Sudden
and severe giddiness, delirium with hallucinations and
loss of consciousness. Cerebral irritation, hysterical
and infantile spasms come within range of this remedy.
Poisoning by mushrooms. Chorea. Tremor. Nervous-
hess, excitement, and sleeplessness in children.

Mind. — Hallucinations. Frightful visions. Klepto-
mania Loss of memory. Forgets what has recently
happened. Wants nothing to do with anybody. Brutal.

Head. — Vertigo, with tendency to fall backward.
General coufusion. Wants head low. Pupils dilated
unequally. Face blue Spasmodic facial twitching.
Dull occipital headache.

Mouth. — Jaws fixed. Bites tongue; trembles; feels
as if swollen and too large; protruding.
ABSINTHIUM — ACALYPHA INDICA 5

Throat. — Scalded sensation; as of a lump.

Stomach. — Nausea; retching; eructation. Bloated
around waist and abdomen. Wind colic.

Urine. — Constant desire. Very strong odor; deep
yellow color. [Kali phos.]

Heart.— Tremor of heart felt toward the back;
thumps, can be heard in back.

Sexual. — Darting pain in right ovary. Spermator-
rhoea, with relaxed parts.

Chest. — Sensation of weight on chest. Irregular,
tumultuous action of heart can be heard in back.

Extremities.-—- Pain in limbs. Paralytic symptoms.

Relationship.— Compare: Alcohol; Artemisia; Hy-
drocy. acid; Cina; Cicuta.

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

ACALYPHA INDICA
(Indian. Nettle)

A drug having a marked action on the alimentary
canal and respiratory organs, It is indicated in incip-
ient phthisis, with hard, racking cough, bloody expec-
toration, arterial hemorrhage, but no febrile disturb-
ance. Very weak in the morning, gains strength dur-
ing day. Progressive emaciation, All pathological
hemorrhages having notably a morning aggravation.

Chest. — Cough dry, hard, followed by hemoptysis;
worse in morning and at night. Constant and severe
pain in chest. Blood bright red and not profuse in
morning; dark and clotted in afternoon. Pulse soft and
compressible. Burning in pharynx, cesophagus, and
stomach.

Abdomen. — Burning in intestines. Spluttering diar-
rhea with forcible expulsion of noisy flatus, bearing-
down pains and tenesmus. Rumbling distention, and
6 ACALYPHA INDICA — ACETANILIDUM — ACETIC ACID

griping pam in abdomen. Rectal hemorrhage; worse
in morning.

Skin. -- Jaundice. Itching and circumscribed furuncle-
like swellings.

Modalities. — JVorse in morning.

Relationship. — Compare: Afillefol.; Phosphor.; Ace-
tic acid; Kali nit.

Dose. -— Third to sixth potency.

ACETANILIDUM
(Antifebrinum)

Increased susceptibility to cold. Depresses heart, res-
piration and blood pressure, lowers temperature. Cya-
nosis and collapse,

Head. — Enlarged sensation. Fainting. Moral de-
pravity.

Eyes. — Pallor of optic discs, contracted visual fieid
and shrinking retinal vessel; mydriasis.

Heart. — Weak, irregular, with blue mucous mem-
branes, albumimuiia, oxdema v3 teet and ankles.

Relationship. — Compare: Antipyrin.

Dose. — Used as a sedative and antipyretic for various
forms of headache and neuralgia in doses of one to
three grains. For the homeopathic indications use the
third potency.

ACETIC ACID
(Glacial Acetic Acid)

This drug produces a condition of profound anzmia,
with some dropsical symptoms, great debility, frequent
fainting, dyspnoea, weak heart, vomiting, profuse urina-
tion and sweat. Hemorrhage from any part. Espe-
cially indicated in pale, lean persons, with lax, flabby
muscles. [Vasting and debility. Acetic acid has the
pewer to liquify albuminous and fibrinous deposits.
ACETIC ACID 7

Epithelial cancer. Sycosis with nodules and formations
in the joints. (C. M. Boger.)

Mind. — Irritable, worried about business affairs.

Head. — Nervous headache, from abuse of narcotics.
Blood rushes to head with delirium. Temporal vessels
distended. Pain across root of tongue.

Face. — Pale, waxen, emaciated. Eyes sunken, sur-
rounded by dark rings. Bright red. Sweaty. Epi-
thelioma of lip. Cheeks hot and flushed.

Stomach. — Salivation. Fermentation in stomach.
Intense burning thirst. Cold drinks distress. Vomits
after every kind of food. Epigastric tenderness. Burn-
ing pain as of an ulcer. Cancer of stomach. Sour
belching and vomiting. Burning waterbrash and pro-
fuse salivation. Violent burning pain in stomach and
chest, followed by coldness of skin and cold sweat on
forehead,

Abdomen. — Feels as 1f abdomen was sinking in.
Frequent watery stools, worse in morning. Tympanitic.
Ascites. Hemorrhage from bowels.

Urine. — Large quantities of pale urine, Diabetes,
with great thirst and debility. [Phos. ac.]

Female. — Excessive catamenia. /7@morrhages after
labor. Nausea of pregnancy. Breasts painfully en-
larged, distended with milk, Milk impoverished, bluish,
transparent, sour. Anamia of nursing mothers.

Respiratory. — Hoarse, hissing respiration; dificult
breathing; cough when inhaling. Membraneous croup.
Irritation of trachea and bronchial tubes. False mem-
brane in throat. Profuse bronchorrhcea,

Back,— Pain in back, relieved only by lying on
abdomen,

Extremities. — Emaciation, CEdema of feet and legs.
& ACETIC ACID— ACONITUM NAPELLUS

Skin. — Pale, waxen, oedematous, Burning, dry, hot
skin, or bathed in profuse sweat, Diminished sensi-
bility of the surface of body. Useful after stings, bites,
etc. Varicose swellings. Scurvy; anasarca, Bruises;
sprains.

Fever. — Hectic, with drenching night-sweats. Red
spot on lIcft cheek. No thirst in fever. Ebullitions.
Sweat profuse, cold.

Relationship. — Acetic acid is antidotal to all anzs-
thetic vapors. Counteracts sausage poisoning.

Compare: Ammon. acet. (Profuse saccharine urine,
patient is bathed in sweat.) Ars.; China; Digitalis;
Liatris, (General anasarca in heart and kidney disease,
dropsy, and chronic diarrhcea.)

Dose — Third to thirtieth potency. Not to be re-
peated too often, except in croup.

ACONITUM NAPELLUS
(Monkshood)

A state of fear, anxiety; anguish of mind and hody.
Physical and mental restlessness, fright, is the most
characteristic manifestation of Aconite. Acute, sudden,
and violent invasion, with fever, call for it. Complaints
and tension caused by exposure to dry, cold weather,
draught of cold air, checked perspiration, also com-
plaints from very hot weather, especially gastro-intes-
tinal disturbances, etc. First remedy in inflammations,
inflammatory fevers. Serous membranes and muscular
tissues affected markedly. Burning in internal parts;
tingling, coldness and numbness. Influenza. Tension ot
arteries: emotional and physical mental tension explain
many syinptoms. When prescribing Aconite remember
Aconite causes only functional disturbance, no evi-
dence that it can produce tissue change—its action is
ACONITUM NAPELLUS 9

brief and shows no periodicity. Its sphere is in the
beginning of an acute disease and not to be continued
after pathological change comes. In Hyperzmia, con-
gestion not after exudation has set in.

Mind. — Great fear, anxiety, and worry accompany
every ailment, however trivial. Delirium is character-
ized by unhappiness, worry, fear, raving, rarely uncon-
sciousness. Forebodings and fears. Fears death but
believes that he will soon die; predicts the day. Fears
the future, a crowd, crossing the street. Restlessness,
tossing about, Tendency to start. Imagination acute,
clairvoyance. Pains are intolerable; they drive him
crazy. Music is unbearable; makes her sad. [Ambra]
Thinks his thoughts come from the stomach — that
parts of his body are abnormally thick. Feels as if
what had just been done was a dream.

Head. — Fullness; hecvy, pulsating, hot, bursting,
burning, undulating sensation. Burning headache, as if
brain were moved by boiling water [Jndigo.]. Vertigo;
worse on rising [Nux. Opium] and shaking head. Sen-
sation on vertex as if hair were pulled or stood on
end. Nocturnal furious delirium.

Eyes. — Red, inflamed. Feel dry and hot, as if sand
in them. Lids swollen, hard and red. Aversion to
light. Profuse watering after exposure to dry, cold
winds, reflection from snow, after extraction of cinders
and other foreign bodies.

Ears. — Very sensitive to noises; music is unbearable.
External ear hot, red, painful, swollen. Earache.
[Cham.] Sensation as of drop of water in left ear.

Nose. — Smell acutely sensitive. Pain at root of nose.
Coryza; much sneezing; throbbing in nostrils, Hemor-
rhage of bright red blood. Mucous membrane dry, nose
stopped up; dry or with but scanty watery coryza.
10 ACONITUM NAPELLUS

Face. — Red, hot, flushed, swollen. One cheek red,
the other pale (Cham., Jpec.). On rising the red face
becomes deathly pale, or he becomes dizzy. Tingling in
cheeks and numbness. Neuralgia, especially of Icft side,
with restlessness, tingling, and numbness. Pain in jaws.

Mouth. — Numb, dry, and tingling. Tongue swollen;
tip tingles. Teeth sensitive to cold. Constantly moves
lower jaw as if chewing. Gums hot and mflamed.
Tongue coated white. [elutim. crud.]

Throat.— hed, dry, constricted, numb, prickling,
burning, stinging. Tonsils swollen and dry.

Stomach. — Vomiting, with fear, heat, thirst, profuse
sweat and increased urination, Bitter taste of every-
thing except water. Jutense thirst. Drinks, vomits, and
declares he will die. Vomiting, bilious, mucus and
bloody, greenish. VPressure in stomach with dyspnoea.
Umatemesis. Burning from stomach to qasophagus.

Abdomen. — Hui, ivuse, tyinpanitic.  Sensilive to
touch. Colc, no position relieves. Abdominal symp-
toms better after warm soup. Burning in umbilical
region

Rectum. —— Pain with nightly itching and stitching in
anus. Frequent, small stoel with tenesmus; green, like
chopped herbs, White with red urine. Choleraic dis-
charge with collapse, anxiety, and restlessness. Bleed-
ing hemorrhoids, [/7emam.| Watery diarrhoea in chil-
dren, ‘They cry and compjain much, are sleepless and
restless.

Urine. — Scanty, red, hot, painful, Tenesmus and
burning at neck of bladder. Burning in urethra. Urine
suppressed, bloody. Anxiety always on beginning to
urinate. Actcntion, with sercaming and restlessness,
and handling of genitais. Renal region sensitive. Pro-
fuse urination, with profuse perspiration and diarrheea.

Male.— Crawling and stinging in glans. Bruised
10 ACONITUM NAPELLUS

Face. — Red, hot, flushed, swollen. One cheek red,
the other pale (Cham., Jpec.). On rising the red face
becomes deathly pale, or he becomes dizzy. Tingling in
cheeks and numbness. Neuralgia, especially of Icft side,
with restlessness, tingling, and numbness. Pain in jaws.

Mouth. — Numb, dry, and tingling. Tongue swollen;
tip tingles. Teeth sensitive to cold. Constantly moves
lower jaw as if chewing. Gums hot and mflamed.
Tongue coated white. [elutim. crud.]

Throat.— hed, dry, constricted, numb, prickling,
burning, stinging. Tonsils swollen and dry.

Stomach. — Vomiting, with fear, heat, thirst, profuse
sweat and increased urination, Bitter taste of every-
thing except water. Jutense thirst. Drinks, vomits, and
declares he will die. Vomiting, bilious, mucus and
bloody, greenish. VPressure in stomach with dyspnoea.
Umatemesis. Burning from stomach to qasophagus.

Abdomen. — Hui, ivuse, tyinpanitic.  Sensilive to
touch. Colc, no position relieves. Abdominal symp-
toms better after warm soup. Burning in umbilical
region

Rectum. —— Pain with nightly itching and stitching in
anus. Frequent, small stoel with tenesmus; green, like
chopped herbs, White with red urine. Choleraic dis-
charge with collapse, anxiety, and restlessness. Bleed-
ing hemorrhoids, [/7emam.| Watery diarrhoea in chil-
dren, ‘They cry and compjain much, are sleepless and
restless.

Urine. — Scanty, red, hot, painful, Tenesmus and
burning at neck of bladder. Burning in urethra. Urine
suppressed, bloody. Anxiety always on beginning to
urinate. Actcntion, with sercaming and restlessness,
and handling of genitais. Renal region sensitive. Pro-
fuse urination, with profuse perspiration and diarrheea.

Male.— Crawling and stinging in glans. Bruised
ACONITUM NAPELLUS 11

pain in testicles, swollen, hard. Frequent erections and
emissions. Painful erections.

Female. — Vagina dry, hot, sensitive. Menses too
profuse, with nosebleed, too protracted, late. Frenzy on
appearance of menses. Suppressed from fright, cold, in
plethoric subjects. Ovaries congested and painful.
Sharp shooting pains in womb, After-pains, with fear
and restlessness.

Respiratory. — Constant pressure in left chest; op-
pressed breathing on least motion. Hoarse, dry, croupy
cough; loud, labored breathing. Child grasps at throat
every time he coughs. Very sensitive to inspired air.
Shortacss of breath. Varynx sensitive Stitches through
chest. Cough, dry, short, hacking; worse at night and
after midnight, Hot feeling in lungs. Blood comes up
with hawking, Tingling in chest after cough.

Heart. — Palpitation, with anxiety, fainting, and
tingling in fingers. Pulse full, hard; tense and bound-
ing; sometimes intermits. Temporal and carotid arteries
felt when sitting.

Back. — Numb, stiff, painful. Crawling and tingling,
as if bruised. Stiffness in nape of neck. Bruised pain
hetween scapule,

Extremities. — Numbness and tingling; shooting
pains; icy coldness and insensibility of hands and feet.
Arms feel lame, bruised, heavy, numb. Pain down left
arm [Cact., Crotal., Kalmia, Tabac.] Hot hands and
cold fect. (Rheumatic inflammation of joints; worse at
night; red shining swelling, very senstitive.) Hip-joint
and thigh feel lame, especially after lying down. Knees
unsteady; disposition of foot to turn. [scul.] Weak
and lax ligaments of all joints. Painless cracking of
all joints. Bright red hypothenar eminences on both
hands. Sensation as if drops of water trickled down
the thigh.
12 ACONITUM NAPELLUS

Sleep.— Nightmare. Nightly ravings. Anxious
dreams. Sleepiessness, with restless and tossing about.
Starts up in sleep. Long dreams, with anxiety in
chest. Insomnia of the aged.

Skin. — Red, hot, swollen, dry, burning. Purpura
miliaris. Rash like measles. Gooseflesh. Formication
and numbness. Chilliness and formication down back.
Pruritus relieved by stimulants.

Fever. — Dry heat; red face. Evening chilliness soou
after going to bed. Sweat constant. Sweat on part
lain on. Cold waves pass through him. Thirst and rest-
lessness always present. Chilly if uncovered or touched.

Modalities. — Better in open air; worse in warm
room, in evening and night; worse lying on affected
side, from music, from tobacco-smoke, dry, cold winds.

Vinegar in large doses is antidotal to poisonous ef-
fects.

Compare Cham, and Coffea in intense pain and sleep-
lessness,

Relationship. — Acids, wine and coffee, lemonade,
and acid fruits modify its action.

Not indicated in malarial and low fevers or hectic
and pyrmic conditions, and in inflammations when they
localize themselves. Sulphur often follows it.

Agrostis acts like Acon. in fever and inflammations,
also Spiranthes.

Compiementary: Coffea; Sulph.

Compare: Bellad.; Cham.; Coffea; Ferr. phos.

Aconitine,— (Heavy feeling as of Icad; pains in
supraorbital nerve; ice cold sensations creep up; hy-
drophobia symptoms.)

Aconitum Lycotonum.— Great yellow wolfsbane. —
Swelling of glands; Hodgkin’s disease. Diarrhea after
eating pork. Itching. Skin of nose cracked.
ACONITUM NAPELLUS~— ACTEA SPICATA 13

Aconitum ferox.—Indian Aconite.— Rather more
violent in its actions than A. napellus. It is more
diuretic and less antipyretic. It has proved valuable in
cardiac dyspnaa, neuralgia, and acute gout. Dyspnea.
Must sit up. Rapid respiration, Anxiety, with suffoca-
tion from feeling of paralysis in respiratory muscles.
[Curare; Phosph.]  Quebracho (cardiac dyspnea.)
(Achyranthes.— A Mexican drug—very similar to
Aconite in fevers, but of larger range, being also
adapted to typhoidal states and intermittents. Muscular
rheumatism. A great diaphoretic. Use 6x.)

Dose. — Sixth potency for sensory affections; first to
third for congestive conditions. Must be repeated fre-
quently in acute diseases. Acon. is a rapid worker, In
Neuralgias tincture of the root often preferable, one
drop doses (poisonous), or again, the 30th potency,
according to susceptibility of patient.

ACTEA SPICATA
(Baneberry)

Is a rheumatic remedy, especially of the small joints;
tearing, tingling pains characterize it. Wrist-rheuma-
tism. Pulsations over whole body, especially liver and
renal region. Cardio-vascular spasm.

Head. — Ebullition of blood to head excited by drink-
ing coffee. Vertigo, tearing headache, better in open -
air, throbbing in brain, pain from crown to between
eyebrows; heat in forehead, pain in left frontal emi-
rence as if bone were crushed. Itching of scalp alter-
nating with heat; nose red at tip, fluent coryza.

Face.— Violent pain in upper jaw, running from
teeth through malar bones to temples. Perspiration on
face and head.
14 ACTEA SPICATA — ADONIS VERNALIS

Stomach. — Tearing, darting pains in epigastric
region, with vomiting. Cramp-like pains in stomach
aud epigastrium, with difficult breathing; sense of suf-
focation. Sudden lassitude after eating,

Abdomen. — Spasmodic retraction. Sticking pain and
distension of hypogastrium.

Respiratory. — Short, irregular breathing at night,
while lying. Great oppression. Shortness of breath on
exposure to cold air.

Extremities.— Tearing pains in loins. Rheumatic
pains in small joints, wrist, fingers, ankles, toes. Sweél-
ing of joints from sliyht fatigue. Wrist swollen, red,
worse any motion. Paralytic weakness in the hands.
Sudden lassitude after talking or eating.

Relationship. — Compare: Cimicif.; Cauloph.; Led.

Dose. — Third potency.

AVONIS VERNALIS
(Peasant’s Eye)

A heart medicine, after rheumatism or influenza,
where the muscles of the heart are in stage of fatty de-
generation, regulating the pulse and increasing the
power of contractions of heart, with increased urinary
secretions, Valvular affections. Most valuable in car-
diac drowsy. Low vitality, with weak heart and slow,
weak pulse. Hydrothorax, ascites.

Head. — Feels light; aches across front, from occiput
around temples to eyes, Vertigo on rising, turning head
quickly or lying down. Tinnitus. Scalp feels tight.

Mouth.— Slimy. Tengue dirty yellow, sore, feels
scalded.
ADONIS VLRNALIS — ADRENALIN yo

Heart. — Mitral and aortic regurgitation. Pracordiul
pain, palpitation, and dyspnaa. Marked venous en-
gorgement. Cardiac asthma. [Quebracho.] Fatty
heart. Myocarditis, irregular cardiac action, constric-
tion and vertigo. Pulse rapid, irregular.

Stomach. -—- Heavy weight. Gnawing hunger. Faint
feeling in epigastrium. Better out of doors.

Urine. —- Oily pellicle on urine. Scanty, albuminous.

Respiratory. — Frequent desire to take a long breath.
Feeling of weight on chest.

Sleep. — Restless, with horrible dreams,

Extremities. — Aching in nape. Spine stiff and ach-
ing.

Relationship. —- Adonidin is a cardiac tonic and
diuretic. Quarter to half grain daily, or two to five
grains of first decima! trit. Increases arterial pressure
and prolongs the diastole, favoring emptying engorged
veins.

Compare: Digit.; Crateg.; Conval.; Strophantus,

Dose. — Five to ten drops of the tincture.

ADRENALIN

(An Internal Secretion of Suprarenal Glands)

Adrenalin or Epinephrin, the active principle of the
suprarenal gland, is employed as a chemical messenger
in the regulation of the activities of the body; in fact,
its presence is essential to the activity of the sympa-
thetic nerve. Adrenalin action on any part is the same
as stimulation of the sympathetic nerve endings thereto.
Local application [1:1,000 solution] to mucous mem-
16 ADRENALIN

branes promptly induces transient ischemia, seen in a
blanching, persisting several hours from conjunctival in-
stillation, Its action is very prompt, efficient, avanes-
cent, owing to rapid oxidation and therefore practi-
cally harmless, unless too frequently repeated, when ath-
eroma and heart lesions — myocardial — in animals have
been reported.

The main action of Adrenalin is stimulation of the
sympathetic endings, notably the splanchnic area, causing
constriction of the peripheral arterioles, with resulting
rise in blood pressurc. This is especially observed
in stomach, intestines; less in uterus, skin; nil in brain
and lungs. Furthermore, is noticed, slowing of pulse,
medullary vagus stimulation, and strengthening of heart
beat, increased myocardial contractility, resembling
Digitalis; increased glandular activity, glycusuria; de-
pression of respiratory center; contraction of muscular
tissue of eye, nterus, vagina; relaxation of muscular
tissue of stomach, intestines, bladder.

Uses. — Its chief therapeutic use depends on its vaso-
constriction action; therefore a most powerful and
prompt astringent and hemostatic: and invaluable in
checking capillary hemorrhages from all parts, where
local or direct application is feasible, nose, ear, mouth,
throat, larynx, stomach, rectum, uterus, bladder. Com-
plete bloodlessness, ischaemia, may be induced with im-
punity. Locally, solutions [1:10,000-1: 1,000] sprayed or
applied on cotton have been very efficient in bloodless
operations about the eye, nose, throat, and larynx

Congestions of the ethmoid and sphenoid sinuses, also
hay fever, have been markedly alleviated by warm spray
of Adrenatin chloride, 1:5,000. Here compare Hepar
1x, which will start up secretions and so facilitate drain-
age. Werlhoff's disease hypodermically, 1:1,000. Ex-
ADRENALIN — #SCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM 17

ternally, it has been used in neuritis, neuralgia, reflex
pains, gout, rheumatism, as an ointment, 1-2 m. of 10
per cent, solution, along the nerve trunk at point of
skin nearest its origin.

Therapeutically, Adrenalin has been suggested in
acute congestion of lungs. Grave's and Addison's dis-
eases, arterio-sclerosis, chronic aortitis, angina pectoris,
hemophilia, chlorosis, etc. Dr. P. Jousset reports suc-
cess in treating, homeeopathically, cases of angina and
of aortitis, sub-acute and chronic, when Adrenalin has
been prescribed per os and in infinitesimal dose. The
symptom guiding to this is, Sensation ef thoracic con-
striction with anguish. This, with vertigo, nausca and
vomiting, have been produced by the drug. Abdominal
fain. Shock or heart failure during anesthesia, as it
causes very prompt rise of blood pressure by its action
on nerve endings in the vessel wall.

Dose. — Hypodermically, 1-5 m. [1: 1,000 solution] di-
luted in water. Internally, 5-30 m. of 1: 1,000 solution.

CavuTiIon. — On account of its affinity for oxygen, the
drug easily deconmposes in watery and dilute acid solu-
tions. The solution must be protected from air and
light. It must not be too frequently repeated, owing to
cardiac and arterial lesions. For homeopathic use 2x
to 6x attenuation.

AESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM
(Horse Chestnut)

The action of this drug is most marked on the lower
bowel, producing engorged hzmorrhoidal veins, with
characteristic backache. Venous stasis general, varicose
veins of purple color; everything is slowed down, diges-
tion, heart, bowels, etc. Torpor and congestion of the
18 4ZSCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM

liver and portal system, with constipation. The back
aches and gives out, and unfits the patient for business.
Flying pains all over. Fullness in various parts; dry,
swollen mucous membranes.

Head. — Depressed and irritable. Head dull, confused.
Pressure in forehead, with nausea, followed by stitches
in right hypochondrium. Pain from occiput to frontal
region, with bruised sensation of the scalp; worse in
the morning. Neuralgic stitches from right to left
through forehead, followed by flymg pains in epi-
gastrium.

Eyes. — Heavy and hot, with lachrymation, with cn-
lurged blood vessels. Eyeballs sore.

Nose. — Dry; inspired air feels cold, nasal passages
sensilive to it, Coryza, sneezing. Pressure at root of
nose. Membrane over turbinate bones distended and
boggy, dependent upon hepatic disorders.

Mouth, — Scalded feeling, Metallic taste. Salivation.
Tongue thickly coated, feels as if scalded.

Throat. — Hot, dry, raw, stitching pain into ears when
swallowing. Follicular pharyngitis connected with
hepatic congestion. Veins in pharynx distended and
tortuous. Throat sensitive to inspired air; feels ex-
coriated and constricted, burns like fire on swallowing,
in afternoon. Early stages of atrophic pharyngitis in
dried-up, bilious subjects. Hawking of ropy mucus of
sweetish taste,

Stomach. — Weight of a stone, with gnawing, aching
pain; most manifest about three hours after meals.
Tenderness and fullness in region of liver.

Abdomen. -— Dull aching in hver and epigastrium.

Pain at umbilicus. Throbbing in hypogastrium and
pelvis.
ZESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM 10)

Rectum.— Dry, aching. Feels full of small sticks.
Anus raw, sore. Much pain after stool, with prolapse.
Hemorrhoids, with sharp shooting pains up the back;
blind and bleeding; worse during climacteric. Large,
hard, dry stools. Mucous membrane seems swollen and
obstructs the passage. Irritation caused by ascarides
and aids their expulsion. Burning in anus with chills
up and down back.

Urinary. —- Frequent, scant, hot urine. Pain in kid-
neys, especially left and ureter.

Male. --- Discharge of prostatic fluid at stool.

Femaie. — Constant throbbing behina symphysis pubis.
Leucorrhea, with lameness of back across the sacro-
tliac articulation; dark yellow, sticky corroding; worse
after menses,

Chest. — Feels constricted. Jeart’s action full and
heavy, can feel pulsations ali over. Laryngitis; coughs
depending on hepatic disorders; hot feeling in chest;
pain around heart.

Extremities. — Aching and soreness in limbs, in left
acromion process with shooting down arms: finger tips
numb.

Back. — Lameness in neck; aching between shoulder
blades; region of spine feels weak; back and legs give
out. Backache affecting sacrum and hips; worse walk-
ing or stooping. When walking feet turn under. Soles
feel sore, tired, and cwell. Hands and feet swell, and
become red after washing, feel full.

Fever. — Chill at 4 Pp. m. Chilliness up and down
back. Fever 7 to 12 p. m. Evening fever, skin hot and
dry. Sweat profuse and hot with the fever.

Modalities. — Worse, in morning on awaking, and
from any motion; fiom moving bowels; after eating,
20 ZETHIOPS MERCURIALIS —- ZTHUSA CYNAPIUM

afternoon, standing. Better, while at rest; walking;
cool open air.

Comparison. — Zisculus glabra—-Ohio Buckeye —
(Very paitiful, dark purple, external hemorrhoids, with
constipation and vertigo and portal congestion. Speech
thick, tickling in throat, impaired vision, paresis.) Aloes;
Collinsonia; Nux; Sulph. Phytolacca (throat dry, more
often in acute cases.) Nequndium Amcericanum — Box-
elder — (Engorgements of rectum and piles with great
pain, ten-drop doses of tincture every two hours.)

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

AETHIOPS MERCURIALIS
(Sulph. and Quicksilver, or Black Sulphur Mercury)

This preparation is of use in scrofulous affections,
ophthalmia, otorrhea, painful, irritating, scabby erup-
tions, hereditary syphilis.

Skin. -—- Eruptions. Favus-iike, scrofulous, herpetic
and eczematous.

Dose. — The lower triturations, especially the second
decimal.

Relationship. — Ethiops Antimonalis — ZEthiops
plus Antimony —(often more effective than the above
in scrofulous eruptions, glandular swellings, otorrhoa
and scrofulous eye affections, corneal ulcers. Third
trituration.) Calc.,; Sil.; Fsorin,

AETHUSA CYNAPIUM
(Fool’s Parsley)

The characteristic symptoms relate mainly to the
brain and nervous systein, connected with gastro-intes-
20 ZETHIOPS MERCURIALIS —- ZTHUSA CYNAPIUM

afternoon, standing. Better, while at rest; walking;
cool open air.

Comparison. — Zisculus glabra—-Ohio Buckeye —
(Very paitiful, dark purple, external hemorrhoids, with
constipation and vertigo and portal congestion. Speech
thick, tickling in throat, impaired vision, paresis.) Aloes;
Collinsonia; Nux; Sulph. Phytolacca (throat dry, more
often in acute cases.) Nequndium Amcericanum — Box-
elder — (Engorgements of rectum and piles with great
pain, ten-drop doses of tincture every two hours.)

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

AETHIOPS MERCURIALIS
(Sulph. and Quicksilver, or Black Sulphur Mercury)

This preparation is of use in scrofulous affections,
ophthalmia, otorrhea, painful, irritating, scabby erup-
tions, hereditary syphilis.

Skin. -—- Eruptions. Favus-iike, scrofulous, herpetic
and eczematous.

Dose. — The lower triturations, especially the second
decimal.

Relationship. — Ethiops Antimonalis — ZEthiops
plus Antimony —(often more effective than the above
in scrofulous eruptions, glandular swellings, otorrhoa
and scrofulous eye affections, corneal ulcers. Third
trituration.) Calc.,; Sil.; Fsorin,

AETHUSA CYNAPIUM
(Fool’s Parsley)

The characteristic symptoms relate mainly to the
brain and nervous systein, connected with gastro-intes-
ZTHUSA CYNAPIUM 21

tinal disturbance. Anguish, crying, and expression of
uneasiness and discontent, lead to this remedy most
frequently in disease in children, during dentition, sum-
mer complaint, when, with the diarrheea, there is marked
inability to digest milk, and poor circulation. Symp-
toms set in with violence,

Mind. — Restless, anxious, crying. Sees rats, cats,
dogs, etc. Unconscious, delirious. Inability to think,
to fix the attention. Brain fag. [Picric actd.]

Head. -— Feels bound up, or in a vise. Occipital pain
extending down spine; better lying down and by pres-
sure. Head symptoms relieved by expelling flatus
[Sanguin.] and by stool. Hair feels pulled. Vertigo
with drowsincss, with palpitation; head hot after ver-
tigo ceases.

Eyes, — Photophobia; swe-ling of Meibomian glands.
Rolling of eyes on falling asleep. Eyes drawn down-
ward, pupils dilated.

Ears, — Feel obstructed. Sense of something hot from
ears. Hissing sound.

Nose, — Stopped up with much thick mucus. Her-
petic eruption on tip of nose. Frequent ineffectual de-
sire to sneeze.

Face,— Puffed, red-spotted, collapsed. Expression
anxious, full of pain; linea nasalis marked.

Mouth,— Dry. Apththe, Tongue seems too long,
Burning and pustules in throat, with difficult swallowing.

Stomach. — Intolerance of milk; vomited as soon as
swallowed or in large curds. [Valer.] Regurgitation
of food about an hour after eating. Violent vomiting
of a white frothy matter. Nausea at sight of food.
Painful contraction of stomach. Vomiting, with sweat
and great weakness, accompanied by anguish and dis-
22 ZETHUSA CYNAPIUM

tress, followed by sleepiness. Stomach feels turned up-
side down, with burning feeling up to the chest. Tear-
ing pains in the stomach extending to cesophagus.

Abdomen. — Cold, internal and external, with aching
pain in bowels. Colic, followed by vomiting, vertigo,
and weakness. Tense, inflated, and sensitive. Bubbling
sensation around navel.

Stool. — Undigested, thin, greenish, preceded by colic,
with tenesmus, and followed by exhaustion and drowsi-
ness. Cholera infantum; child cold, clammy, stapid,
with staring eyes and dilated pupils. Obstinate consti-
pation; feels as if all bowel action is lost. Choleraic
affections in old age.

Urinary. — Cutting pain in bladder, with frequent
urging. Pain in lidneys.

Female. — Lancinating pains in sexual organs. Pim-
ples; itching when warm. Menses watcry. Swelling
of mammary glands, with ijancinating pains.

Respiratory. — Difficult, oppressed, anxious respira-
tion, crampy constriction. Sufferings render patient
specchless.

Heart. — Violent palpitatioa, with vertigo, headache
and restlessness, Pulse rapid, hard and small.

Back and Extremities. — Want of power to stand up
or hold head up. Back feels as if in a vise. Aching in
small of back. Weakness of lower extremities. Fingers
and thumbs clenched. Numbness of hands and feet.
Violent spasms. Squinting of eyes downward.

Skin. — Excoriation of thighs in walking. Easy per-
spiration Surface of body cold and covercd with
clammy sweat. Isimphatic glands swollen. Itching
eruption around joints, Skin of hands dry and shrunken.
Ecchymosis. Anasarca.
AGARICUS MUSCARIUS 23

Fever. — Great heat; no thirst. Profuse, cold sweat.
Must be covered during sweat. .

Sleep. — Disturbed by wiolent startings; cold per-
spiration. Dozing after vomiting or stool. Child is so
exhausted, it falls asleep at once.

Modalities. -—- Worse, 3 to 4 a.m., and evenings;
warmth, summer. Better in open air and company.

Compare: Athamantha (confused head, vertigo better
lying down, bitter taste and saliva. Hands and feet
icy cold); Antimon.; Calc.; Ars.; Cicuta. Complemen-
tary: Cale. .

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

AGARICUS MUSCARIUS
(Bug Agaric — Amanita)

Jerking, twitching, trembling, and itching are strong
indications. Incipient phthisis; is related to the tuber-
cular diathesis, anzemia, chorea, various forms of neu-
ralgia and spasmodic affections, and neurotic skin
troubles are pictured in the symptomatology of this
remedy. It corresponds to various forms of cerebral
>xcitement rather than congestion. Thus, in delirium
of fevers, alcoholism, etc. General paralysis. Sensa-
‘ton as tf pierced by needles of ice. Sensitive to pres-
sure and cold air. Viglent bearing-down pains. Symp-
.oms appear diagonally as right arm and left leg. Pains
ire accompanied by sensation of cold, numbness and
‘ingling.

Mind. — Sings, talks, but does not answer. Logua-
‘ity. Aversion to work. Indifference. Fearlessness.
Delirium characterized by singing, shouting, and mut-
ering; rhymes and prophesies., Begins with paroxysm
of yawning.
24 AGARICUS MUSCARIUS

Head,— Vertigo from sunlight, and on walking.
Head in constant motion. Falling backward, as if a
weight in occiput. Lateral headache, as if from a nail.
[Coff.; Ignat.] Dull headache from prolonged desk-
work. Icy coldness, like icy needles, or splinters. De-
sire to cover head warmly. [Silica.] Headache with
nose-bleed or thick mucus discharge.

Eyes. — Reading difficult, as type seems to move, to
swim, Vibrating specters. Double vision [Gels.], dim
and flickering. Asthenopia from prolonged strain,
spasm of accommodation. Twitching of lids and eye-
balls. [Codvin.] Margins of lids red; itch and burn
and agglutinate. Inner angles very red.

Ears. — Burn and itch, as if frozen. Twitching and
noises.

Nose. — Nervous nasal disturbances. Itching inter-
nally and externally. Spasmodic sneezing after cough-
ing; sensitiveness; watery non-inflammatory discharge.
Inner angles very red. Fetid, dark, bloody discharge.
Nosebleed in old people.

Face. — Facial muscles feel stiff; twitch; face itches
and burns. Lancinating, tearing pain in cheeks, as of
splinters, Neuralgia, as if cold needles ran through :
nerves or sharp ice touched them.

Mouth. — Herpes on lips. Twitching. Taste sweet,
Aphthz on roof of mouth. Splinter-like pains in tongue.
Thirsty all the time. Tremulous tongue. [Lach.]
Tongue white.

Throat. -— Stitches along eustachian tube to ear.
Feels contracted, Small solid balls of phiegm thrown
up. Dryness of pharynx, swallowing difficult. Scratch-
ipg in throat; cannot sing a note.

#Stomach.— Empty  eructatiuns, tasting of apples.
Nervous disturbances, with spasmodic contractions, hic-
AGARICUS MUSCARIUS 25

cough, Unnatural hunger. Flatulént distention of
stomach and abdomen, Profuse inodorous flatus. Burn-
ing in stomach about three hours after a meal, chang-
ing into a dull pressure. Gastric disturbance with sharp
pains in liver region,

Abdomen. — Stitching pains in liver, spleen and
abdomen. Stitches under short ribs, left side. Diar-
rhoea with much fetid flatus. Fetid stools.

Urinary. — Stitches in urethra. Sudden and violent
urging tc urinate. Frequent urination.

Female. — Menses, increased, earlier. Itching and
tearing, pressive pains of genitals and back. Spasmodic
dysmenorrhea. Severe bearing-down pains, especially
after menopause. Sexual excitement. Nipples itch,
burn. Complaints following parturition and coitus.
Leucorrheea, with much itching,

Respiratory Organs.— Violent attacks of coughing
that can be suppressed hy effort of will. Spasmodic
cough at night after falling asleep, with expectoration
of little balls of mucus. Labored, oppressed breathing.
Cough ends in a sneeze.

Heart. — Irregular, ‘umultuous palpitation, after to-
bacco. Pulse intermittent and irregular. Cardiac region
oppressed, as if thorax were narrowed. Palpitation
with redness of face.

Back. — Pain, with sensitiveness of spine to touch;
worse in dorsal region. Lumbago; worse in open air.
Crick in back. Twitching of cervical muscles.

Extremities. — Stiff all over. Pain over hips. Weak-
ness in loins, Uncertain gait. Trembling. Jtching of
toes and feet as if frosex. Cramp in soles of feet. Pain
in shin-bone. Neuralgia in locomotor ataxia. Paralysis
of lower limbs, with spasmodic condition of arms.
Numbness of legs on crossing them. Paralytic pain in
left arm followed by palpitation.
26 AGARICUS MUSCARIUS

Skin. — Burning, itching, redness, and swelling, as
from frost-bites. Pimples, hard, like flea-bites. Mili-
ary eruption, with intolerable itching and burning.
Chilblains. Angioneurotic oedema; rosacea. Swollen
veins with cold skin. Circumscribed erythematous,
papular and pustular and cedematous lesions.

Sleep. — Parorysms of yawning. Restless from vio-
lent itching and burning. On falling asleep, starts,
twitches, and awakens often. Vivid dreams. Drowsy
in daytime. Yawning, followed by involuntary laughter.

Fever. — Very sensitive to cool air. Violent attacks
of heat in evening. Copious sweat. Burning spots.

Modalities. — IVorse, open cold air, after eating, after
coitus. In cold weather, before a thunder-storm. Worse,
pressure on dorsal spine, which causes involuntary
laughter. Better, moving about slowly.

Relationship.— Compare: Cimicif.; Cann. ind.;
Hyos.; Tarantula; Muscarine, the alkaloid of Agaricus
(has much power over secretions, increasing lachrymal,
salivary, hepatic, etc., but diminishing renal; probably
neurotic in origin, stimulating the terminal fibres of
the secretory nerves of all these structures, hence sali-
vation, lachrymation and excessive perspiration. Atropin
exactly opposes Muscarine. Resembles Pilocarpin in
action.) .lmanita vernus— spring mushroom —a va-~
riety of Agar Phalloides; (vomiting and purging. Con-
tinuous urging to stool, but na gastric, abdominal or
rectal pain. Intense thirst for cold water, dry skin.
Lethargic but mentally clear. Sharp changes from rapid
to slow and from slow to rapid breathing, extreme col-
lapse, suppressed urine, but mo culd extremities or
cramps.) <garic. emet, (severe vertigo; all symptoms
better, cold watcr; longing for tce-water). Agar. Phal-
loides (cholera, incessant cramps in stomach; prostra-
tion). Tamus (chilblamns).
AGARICUS MUS, — AGAVE AMER.— AGNUS CASTUS 27

Antidote: Absinth.; Coffea; Camphor.
Dose. —- Third to thirtieth and two hundredth potency.
In skin affections give the lower attenuations.

AGAVE AMERICANA
(Century Plant)

Indicated in stomacace, and painful erections in
gonorrhea. Hydrophobia. Scurvy; countenance pale,
gums swollen and bieeding, legs covered with dark pur-
ple blotches, swollen, painful and hard. Appetite poor;
bowels constipated.

Relationship. — Compare: Lyssin; Lach.; Aloe; Phos.

Dose. —- Tincture.

AGNUS CASTUS
(The Chaste Tree)

The most effective point of attack of Agnus upon the
organism is the sexual organism. It lowers sexual
vitality, with corresponding mental depression and loss
of nervous energy. It shows this distinctive influence
in both sexes, but is more pronounced in men. Prema-
ture old age from abuse of sexual power. History of
repeated gonorrheas. A prominent remedy for sprains
and strains. Gnawing itching in all parts, especially
eyes. Tachycardia caused by tobacco in neurotic young
men,

Mind.— Sexual melancholy. Fear of death. Sad-
ness with impression of speedy death. Absentminted,
forgetful, lack of courage. Illusion of smell — herrings,
musk. Nervous depression and mental forebodings.

Eyes.— Pupils dilated. [Beli.] Itching about eyes;
photophobia.

Nose. — Odor of herring or musk. Aching in dorsum
better pressure.

Abdomen. — Spleen swollen, sore. Stools soft, recede,
dificult. Deep fissures in anus, Nausea with’ sensa-
28  AGRAPHIS NUTANS — AILANTHUS GLANDULOSA

tion as if intestines were pressed downwards; wants tc
support bowels,

Male. — Yellow discharge from urethra. No erec-
tions. Impotence. Parts cold, relaxed. Desire gone.
[Selen.; Con.; Sabal.} Scanty emission without ejacula-
tion. Loss of prostatic fluid on straining. Gleety dis-
charge. Testicles cold, swollen, hard, and painful.

Female. — Scanty menses. Abhorrence of sexual in-
tercourse, Relaxation of genitals, with leucorrhoea.
Agalactia; with sadness. Sterility. [Aur.; Nat. m.;
Bor.] Leucorrheea staining yellow; transparent.

Relationship.— Compare: Selenium; Phosph. ac.;
Camphor; Lycop.

Dose. -— First to sixth potency.

AGRAPHIS NUTANS
(Bluebell)

A tendency to free discharge from mucous mem-
branes, a relaxed condition of the system generally and
a proneness to take cold on exposure to cold winds.
(Cooper.)

Catarrha!l conditions; obstruction of nostrils. Ade-
noids, throat deafness. Enlarged tonsils. Mucous diar-
rhea from cold. Chill from cold winds. [Acon.;
Stlica.} Throat and ear troubles with tendency to free
discharge from mucous membranes. Mutinism of child-
hood unconnected with deafness.

Relationship.— Compare: Hydrast.; Cepa; Cale.
phos.; Squilla,

Dose. — Third potency. Single doses of tincture.

AILANTHUS GLANDULOSA
(Chinese Sumach)

This remedy shows by its peculiar skin symptoms its
gponounced power of disorganizing the blood, causing
AILANTHUS GLANDULOSA — ALETRIS FARINOSA 29

conditions we meet with in low fevers, low types of
eruptive diseases, diphtheria, follicular tonsillitis, etc.
The skin appears livid or purplish; face dark as ma-
hogany, hot; sordes; throat swollen, purple, livid; semi-
conscious, delirious; weak pulse, general torpor and
prostration. Symptoms remarkably alike to malignant
scarlatina. Diarrhoea, dysentery and great weakness
are very marked. Adynamia characterizes all its condi-
tions. Lividity, stupor and malignancy.

Head.-—-General stupor, with sighing. Confused
mind, mental depression. Headache, frontal, with
drowsiness. Suffused, dilated eyes; photophobia. Face
dusky. Thin, copious, ichorous, bloody nasal discharge.

Throat. — Inflamed, oedematous, dusky red. Much
swelling, internal and external. Dry, rough, scraping,
choking feeling. Neck tender and swollen. Hoarse,
croupy voice. Tongue drv and brown. Teeth covered
with sordes. Pam in swallowing extends to the ears.

Respiratory.— Hurried breathing; irregular. Dry,
hacking cough. Lungs sore and tired.

Sleep. — Drowsy, restless. Heavy, disturbed, unre-
freshing.

Skin. — Miliary, livid rash, returns annually. Large
blisters filled with dark serum. Irregular, patchy, livid
eruption, disappearing on pressure. Cold.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Rhus; Nux.

Compare: Ammon, carb.; Bapt.; Arn.; Mur. ac.;
Lach.; Rhus. ,

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

ALETRIS FARINOSA .
(Stargrass)
An anemic, relaxed condition, especially of the fe-

male organism, is protrayed by this remedy. The pa-
tient is fired all the timc, and suffers from prolapsus,
30 ALETRIS FARINOSA — ALFALFA

leucorrheea. rectal distress, etc. Marked anemia.
Chlorotic girls and pregnant women.

Mind. — Power and energy weakened. Confused feel-
ings. Cannot concentrate mind. Fainting, with vertigo.

Mouth, — Much frothy saliva.

Stomach. — Disgust for food. Least food causes dis-
tress. Fainting spells, with vertigo. Vomiting during
pregnancy. Nervous dyspepsia. Flatulent colic. [Mag-
nes, phos.)

Rectum. — Loads up with faces— paretic condition.
Stool large, hard, difficult, great pain.

Female, — Premature and profuse menses, with labor-
like pains. [Bell.; Cham.; Kali c.; Plat.] Retarded
and scanty flow. (Senecio.) Uterus seems heavy.
Prolapse, with pain in right inguinal region. Leucor-
thea. Habitual tendency to abortion. Muscular pains
during pregnancy.

Relationship. — Compare: Heionias;. Hydrastis;
Tanacet.; China.

Dose. -- Tincture to third potency.

ALFALFA
(Medicago Sativa. California Clover or Lucerne)

From its action on the sympathetic, Alfalfa favorably
influences nutrition, evidenced in “toning up” the ap-
petite and digestion resulting in greatly improved men-
tal and physical vigor, with gain in weight. [Hydr.]}
Disorders characterized by malnutrition are mainly
within its therapeutic range, for example, neurasthenia,
splanchnic blues, nervousness, insomnia, nervous in-
digestion, etc. Its pronounced urinary action suggests
it clinically in diabetes insipidus.and phosphaturia; and
it is claimed to allay vesical irritability of prostatic
hypertrophy. The rheumatic diathesis seems especially
amenable to its action.
30 ALETRIS FARINOSA — ALFALFA

leucorrheea. rectal distress, etc. Marked anemia.
Chlorotic girls and pregnant women.

Mind. — Power and energy weakened. Confused feel-
ings. Cannot concentrate mind. Fainting, with vertigo.

Mouth, — Much frothy saliva.

Stomach. — Disgust for food. Least food causes dis-
tress. Fainting spells, with vertigo. Vomiting during
pregnancy. Nervous dyspepsia. Flatulent colic. [Mag-
nes, phos.)

Rectum. — Loads up with faces— paretic condition.
Stool large, hard, difficult, great pain.

Female, — Premature and profuse menses, with labor-
like pains. [Bell.; Cham.; Kali c.; Plat.] Retarded
and scanty flow. (Senecio.) Uterus seems heavy.
Prolapse, with pain in right inguinal region. Leucor-
thea. Habitual tendency to abortion. Muscular pains
during pregnancy.

Relationship. — Compare: Heionias;. Hydrastis;
Tanacet.; China.

Dose. -- Tincture to third potency.

ALFALFA
(Medicago Sativa. California Clover or Lucerne)

From its action on the sympathetic, Alfalfa favorably
influences nutrition, evidenced in “toning up” the ap-
petite and digestion resulting in greatly improved men-
tal and physical vigor, with gain in weight. [Hydr.]}
Disorders characterized by malnutrition are mainly
within its therapeutic range, for example, neurasthenia,
splanchnic blues, nervousness, insomnia, nervous in-
digestion, etc. Its pronounced urinary action suggests
it clinically in diabetes insipidus.and phosphaturia; and
it is claimed to allay vesical irritability of prostatic
hypertrophy. The rheumatic diathesis seems especially
amenable to its action.
ALFALFA — ALLIUM CEPA 31

Mind. — It induces mental exhilaration of buoyancy,
i. e., a general feeling of well being; clear and bright,
so that all blues are dissipated. Dull, drowsy, stupid
[Gels.]; gloomy and irritable, worse during evening.

Head, — Dull, heavy feeling in occiput, in and above
the eyes, worse toward evening. Pain in left side of
head.

Ears. — Stuffed feeling in eustachian tubes [Kali
mur.] at night; patulous in morning.

Stomach — Increased thirst. Appetite impaired, but
chiefly increased even to bulimia. He must eat fre-
quently, so that he cannot wait for regular meals; hun-
gry in forenoon. [Sul.] Much nibbling of food and
craving for sweets.

Abdomen. — Flatulence with distention. Shifting,
flatulent pain along colon several hours after meals.
Frequent, loose, yellow, painful stools, with burning of
flatulence.

Urine. — Kidneys inactive; frequent urging to urinate.
Polyuria. [Phos. ac.] Increased elimination of urea,
indican and phosphates.

Sleep. -— Slept better than usual, especially in early
morning; it induces quiet, reposeful and refreshing
sleep.

Relationship.— Compare: Avena _ sat.; Dipodium
punct.; Gels.; Hydr.; Kali phos.; Phos. ac.; Zine.

Dose. — The best results are elicited with material
doses (5-10) drops of tincture, several times .daily.
Continue its use until tonic effects ensue.

ALLIUM CEPA
(Red Onion)

A picture of coryza, with acrid nasal discharge and
laryngeal symptoms (uasal secretion acrid, ocular
bland) Euphrasia opposite, singers’ cold, worse im
32 ALLIUM CEPA

warm room and toward evening; better in open air is
presented by this remedy. Neuralgic pains, like a fine
thread, following amputations or injuries to nerves.
Traumatic chronic neuritis. Burning in nose, mouth,
throat, bladder and skin. Sensation of glowing heat on
different parts of the body.

Head. — Catarrhal headache, mostly in forehead;
worse in warm room and towards evening. Thread-
like pains in face. Headache ceases during menses; re-
turns when flow disappears.

Eyes. — Red. Much burning and smarting lachryma-
tion. Sensitive to light. Eyes suffused and watery;
profuse, bland lachrymation, better in open air. Burn-
ing in eyelids.

Ears. — Earache, shooting in eustachian tube.

Nose. — Sneezing, especially when entering a warm
room, Copious, watery and extremely acrid discharge.
Feeling of a lump at root of nose. Hay-fever.
[Sabad., Sil.; Psor.J Fluent coryza with headache,
cough, and hoarseness, Polypus.

Stomach — Canine hunger. Pain in pyloric region.
Thirst. Relching. Nausea.

Abdomen. — Rumbling, offensive flatus. Pains in left
hypogastrium. Colic sitting, moving about.

Rectum. — Diarrhea with very offensive flatus.
Stitches in rectum; itching and rhagades in anus. Glow-
ing heat in rectum,

Urinary. — Sensation of weakness in bladder and
urethra. Increased secretion of urine with coryza.
Urine red with much pressure and burning in urethia.

Respiratory. — Ioarsencss. Hackiny cough on in-
spiring cold air, Tickling in larynx. Sensation as tf
larynx is split or torn. Oppressed breathing, Con-
stricted feeling in region of epiglottis. Pain extending
to ear.
ALLIUM CEPA — ALLIUM SATIVUM 33

Extremities. — Lame joints. Ulcers on heel. Pain-
ful affections of fingers about nails. Neuralgia of
stump. Bad effects from getting feet wet. Limbs, es-
pecially arms, feel sore and tired.

Sleep.— Yawning with headache and drowsiness.
Gaping in deep sleep. Dreams. Wakes at 2 a.M.

Modalities. — Worse, in the evening, in warm room.
Better, in open air, and in cold room.

Relationship ——- Compare: Gels.; Euph.; Kali hyd.;
Aconite; Ipecac,

Complementary: Phosphor.; Thuja; Puls.

Antidotes: Arn.; Cham.; Verat.

Dose. — Third potency,

ALLIUM SATIVUM
(Garlic)

Adapted to fleshy subjects with dyspepsia and ca-
tarrhal affections. Tigh livers. Patients who eat a
great deal more than they drink, Pain in hip, pain in
psoas and iliac muscles. Pulmonary tuberculosis.

Cough and expectoration diminishes, temperature be-
comes normal, weight is gained, and sleep becomes reg-
ular. Hemoptysis,

Head. — Heavy; pulsation in temples; catarrhal deaf-
ness.

Mouth. — Much swecetish saliva after meals and at
night.

Stomach. — Voracious appetite. Burning eructations.
Le&st change in diet causes trouble. Constipation, with
constant dull pains in bowels. Tongue pale, red papil-
le.

Respiratory. —- Constant rattling of mucus in bronchi.
Cough in the morning after leaving bedroom, with
mucous expectoration, which is tenacious and difficult
to raise. Sensitive to cold air. Dilated bronchi, with
fetid expectoration. Darting pain in chest.
34 ALLIUM SATIVUM — ALNUS — ALOE

Relationship. — Compare: Capsicum ; Arsenic;
Senega; Kali mt.

Complementary: Arsenic.

Antidote: Lycopod.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency. In tuberculosis, dose,
four to six grammes in moderate state of dessication
daily, in divided doses.

ALNUS
(Red Alder)

IJas some reputation as a remedy for skin affections,
glandular enlargements, and indigestion from imper-
fect secretion of gastric juice. It stimulates nutrition,
and thus acts favorably upon strumous disorders, en-
larged glands, etc. Ulcecrated mucous membranes of
mouth and throat. Fingers covered by crust caused by
pustules, disagrecable odor.

Female, — Leucorrheea, with erosions of cervix,
bleeding easily. Amenortiiuwa, with Laruing pains from
back to pubis,

Skin.-— Chronic herpes, Enlarged  sub-maxiliary
glands. Eczema, prurigo. Purpura hamorrhagica.
Poison-oax, Use locally.

Dose. — Tincture to third potency.

ALOE
(Socotrine Aloes)

An excellent remedy to aid in re-establishing phys-
iological equilibrium after much dosing, where dis-
ease and drug symptoms are much mixed. There is
no remedy richcr in symptoms of portal congestion
and none that has given better clinical results, both
for the primary pathological condition and secondary
phenumena a‘ effects from sedentary life or habits.
ALOE 35

Especially suitable to lymphatic and hypochondriacal
patients. The rectal symptoms usually determine the
choice. Adapted to weary people, the aged, and phleg-
matic, old beer-drinkers. Dissatisfied and angry about
himself, alternating with lumbago. Heat internally and
externally. Has been used successfully in the treatment
of consumption by giving the pure juice.

Head. — Headache alternates with lumbago, with in-
testinal and uterine affections. Disinclination to men-
tal labor, Aches above forehead, with heaviness in
cyes, must partially close them. Weadache after stool.
Dull, pressive pain; worse from heat,

Eyes.—-Compelled to make small during pain in
forehead. [Flickering before eyes. Redness of eyes
with yellow vision. Pain deep in orbits,

Face. —- Marked redness of lips.

Ears. — Cracking when chewing. Sudden explosion
and clashing in left ear. Tinkling as of some thin,
shivered, metallic globe in head.

Nose. — Coldness of tip. Bleeding in morning on
awakening.

Mouth. — Taste bitter and sour. Tasteless eructa-
tions.

Throat. — Thick lumps of tough mucus. Varicose
condition of veins in pharynx.

Stomach. — Aversion to meat, Longing for juicy
things. After eating, flatulence, pulsation in rectum,
and sexual irritation. Nausea, with headache. Pain in
pit when making false step.

Abdomen, — Pain around navel, worse pressure.
Fullness in region of liver, pain under right ribs.
Abdomen feels full, heavy, hot, bloated. Pulsating pain
around navel. Weak feeling, as if diarrhcea would
36

come on. Sensation of plug between symphysis pubis
and os coccygis, with urging to stool. Great accumula-
tion of flatus, pressing downwards, causing distress in
lower bowels. Colic before and during stool. Burn-
ing, copious flatus.

Rectum. — Constant bearing down in rectum; bleed-
ing, sore, and hot; relieved by cold water. Feeling of
weakness and loss of power of sphincter ani. Sense
of insecurity in rectum, when passing flatus. Uncer-
tain whether gas or stool will come. Stool passes with-
out effort, almost unnoticed. Lumpy, watery stool.
Jelly-like stools, with soreness in rectum after stool.
A: lot of mucus, with pain in rectum aftcr_ stool.
Hemorrhoids protrude like grapes; very sore and ten-
der; better cold water application. Burning in anus
and rectum. Constipation, with heavy pressure in lower
part of abdomen. Diarrhoea from beer.

Urinary. — Incontinence in aged, bearing-down sen-
sation and enlarged prostate.

Female, — Bearing down in rectum, worse standing
and during menses. Uterus feels heavy, cannot walk
much on that. account. Labor-like pains in loins: ex-
tend down legs. Climacteric hemorrhage. Menses too
early and too profuse.

Respiratory.— Winter coughs, with itching. Diffi-
cult respiration, with stitches from liver to chest.

Back.— Pain in small of back; worse moving.
Stitches through sacrum. Lumbago alternating with
headache and piles.

Extremities. — lameness in all limbs. Drawing pains
in joints, Soules pain when walking

Modalities. — IV’orse, early morning; summer; heat;
in hot, dry weather: after cating cr drinking. Better,
from cold, open air,
ALOE — ALSTONIA — ALUMEN 37

Relationship. — Complementary: Sulphur; compare:
Kali bich.; Lycop.; Allium sat.

Antidotes: Opium; Sulph,

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

ALSTONIA
(Dita Bark)

Malarial diseases, with diarrhcea, dysentery, anzmia,
feeble digestion, are the general conditions suggesting
this remedy. Characteristics are the gone sensation in
stomach and sinking in abdomen, with debility. 4
tonic after cxrhausting fevers.

Abdomen. — Violent purging and cramp in bowels.
Heat and irritation in lower bowels Camp diarrhaea,
bloody stool, dysentery; diarrhoea from bad water and
malaria. Painless watery stools, [Phosph. ac.) Diar-
rhoea immediately after eating.

Relationship. — Compare: Ditain (active principle, is
anti-periodic, like quinine, but without unpleasant ef-
fects). Cinchona (similar in diarrhoea, chronic dyspep-
sia and debility). Wydrastis; Fer. cit. ct chin.

Dose. — Tincture to third potency. Locally, for ul-
cers and rheumatic pains.

ALUMEN
(Common Potash Alum)

The clinical application of this remedy points to its
bowel symptoms, both in obstinate constipation and in
haemorrhage from bowels in the course of typhoid —
one phase of the paralytic weakness of the muscles in
all parts of the body. Tendency to tduration is also
marked, a low form of tissue-making is favored. Hard-
38 ALUMEN

ening of tissues of tongue, rectum, uterus, etc.; ulcers
with indurated base. Adapted to old people, especially
bronchial catarrhs. Sensation of dryness and constric-
tion. Mental paresis; dysphagia especially to liquids.
Tendency to induration.

Head. — Burning pain as of weight on top of head;
better by pressure of hand. Vertigo, with weakness in
pit of stomach.

Throat. — Throat relaxed. Mucous membrane red
and swollen. Cough. Tickling in throat. Tendency to
throat colds. Jinlarged and indurated tonsils. Burning
pain down the csophagus. Complete aphonia. Every
cold settles in throat. Constriction of cesophagus.

[Bapt.]
Heart. — Palpitation, from lying down on right side.

Rectum, — Constipation of the most agyravated kind.
No desire for stool for days. Violent ineffectual urg-
ing to stool. No alility io eapel sluol. Marble-like
masses pass, but rectum still feels full. Itching after
stool. Itching in anus. Long lasting pain and smart-
ing in rectum after stool; also hemorrhoids. Yellow,
like an infant’s. Hamorrhage from bowels.

Female. — Tendency to induration cf neck of uterus
and mammary glands. [Carb. an.; Con.] Chronic yel-
low vaginal discharge. Chronic gonorrhcea, yellow,
with litle lumps along urethra, Aphthous patches in
vagina. [Caul.] Menses watery.

_Respiratory. — Hamoptysis, great weakness of chest;
difficult to expel mucus. Copious, ropy morning ex-
pectoration in old people. Asthma.

Skin. — Ulcers, with indurated base. To be thought
of in indurated glands, epithelioma, etc.; veins become
varigose, and bleed. Indurations resulting from long-
ALUMEN — ALUMINA 39

continued inflammatory irritations. Glands inflame and
harden. Alopecia.

Extremities. — Weakness of all muscles, especially
arms and legs. Constricted feeling around limbs.

Modalities. — ]Vorse, cold except headache, which is
relieved by cold.

Dose. — First to thirtieth potency. The very highest
potencies have proved efficacious. Powdered alum, 10
grains, placed on tongue, said to arrest an attack of
asthma,

ALUMINA
(Oxide of Aluminum — Argilla)

A very general condition corresponding to this drug
is dryness of mucous membranes and skin, and tendency
to parctic muscular states. Old people, with lack of
vital heat, or prematurely old, with debility. Sluggish
functions, heaviness, numbness, and staggering, and the
characteristic constipation find an excellent remedy in
Alumina. Disposition to colds in the head, and eructa-
tions in spare, dry, thin subjects.

Mind. — Low-spirited; fears loss of reason. Con-
fused as to personal identity. Hasty, hurried. Time
passes slowly. Variable mood. Better as day advances.
Suicidal tendency when seeing knife or blood.

Head. — Stitching, burning pain in head, with vertigo,
worse in morning, but relieved by food. Pressure in
forehead as from a tight hat. Inability to walk except
with eyes open. Throbbing headache, with constipation,
Vertigo, with nausea; better after breakfast. Falling
out of hair; scalp itches and is numb.

Eyes. — Objects look yellow. Eyes feel cold. Lids
dry, burn, smart, thickened, aggravated in morning;
chronic conjunctivitis. Ptosis. Strabismus.
40 ALUMINA

Ears. — Humming; roaring. Eustachian tube feels
plugged.

Nose. — Pain at root of nose, Sense of smell dimin-
ished. Fluent coryza. Point of nose cracked, nostrils
sore, red, worse touch, Scabs with thick yellow mucus.
Tettery redness. QOzsena atrophica sicca. Membranes
distended and boggy.

Face. — Feels as if albuminous substance had dried
on it, Blood-boils and pimples. Twitching of lower
jaw. Rush of blood to face after eating.

Mouth. — Sore. Bad odor from it. Teeth covered
with sordes. Gums sore, bleeding. Tensive pain in
articulation of jaw when opening mouth or chewing.

Throat..— Dry, sore; food cannot pass, cesophagus
contracted. Feels as if splinter or plug were in throat.
Irritable, and relaxed throat. Looks parched and
glazed. Clergyman’s sore throat in thin subjects. Thick,
tenacious mucus drops from posterior nares.

Stomach. — Abnormal cravings — chalk, charcoal, dry
food, tea-grounds. Heartburn; feels constricted. Aver-
sion to meat. [Graph.; 4rn., Puls.] Potatoes disagree.
No desire to eat. Can swallow but smull morsels at a
lime. Constriction of cesophagus.

Abdomen. — Colic, like painter’s colic. Pressing in
both groins toward sexual organs. Left-stded abdominal
complaints,

Stool. — Hard, dry, knotty; no desire, Rectum sore,
dry, inflamed, bleeding. Itching and burning at anus.
Even a soft stool is passed with difficulty. Great strain-
ing. Constipation of infants [Collins.; Psor.; Paraf.}
and old people from inactive rectum, and in women of
very sedentary habit. Diarrhoea on urinating. Evaewa-
tion preceacd by painful urging long before stool, and
then straining ai stool.
40 ALUMINA

Ears. — Humming; roaring. Eustachian tube feels
plugged.

Nose. — Pain at root of nose, Sense of smell dimin-
ished. Fluent coryza. Point of nose cracked, nostrils
sore, red, worse touch, Scabs with thick yellow mucus.
Tettery redness. QOzsena atrophica sicca. Membranes
distended and boggy.

Face. — Feels as if albuminous substance had dried
on it, Blood-boils and pimples. Twitching of lower
jaw. Rush of blood to face after eating.

Mouth. — Sore. Bad odor from it. Teeth covered
with sordes. Gums sore, bleeding. Tensive pain in
articulation of jaw when opening mouth or chewing.

Throat..— Dry, sore; food cannot pass, cesophagus
contracted. Feels as if splinter or plug were in throat.
Irritable, and relaxed throat. Looks parched and
glazed. Clergyman’s sore throat in thin subjects. Thick,
tenacious mucus drops from posterior nares.

Stomach. — Abnormal cravings — chalk, charcoal, dry
food, tea-grounds. Heartburn; feels constricted. Aver-
sion to meat. [Graph.; 4rn., Puls.] Potatoes disagree.
No desire to eat. Can swallow but smull morsels at a
lime. Constriction of cesophagus.

Abdomen. — Colic, like painter’s colic. Pressing in
both groins toward sexual organs. Left-stded abdominal
complaints,

Stool. — Hard, dry, knotty; no desire, Rectum sore,
dry, inflamed, bleeding. Itching and burning at anus.
Even a soft stool is passed with difficulty. Great strain-
ing. Constipation of infants [Collins.; Psor.; Paraf.}
and old people from inactive rectum, and in women of
very sedentary habit. Diarrhoea on urinating. Evaewa-
tion preceacd by painful urging long before stool, and
then straining ai stool.
ALUMINA 41

Urine. — Muscles of bladder paretic, must strain at
stool in order to urinate, Pain in kidneys, with men-
tal confusion. Frequent desire to urinate in old people.
Difficult starting.

Male.— Excessive desire. Involuntary emissions
when straining at stool. Prostatic discharge.

Female. — Menses too early, short, scanty, pale, fol-
lowed by great exhaustion. [Carb. an.; Coccul.] Leu-
corrheea acrid, profuse, transparent, ropy, with burning;
worse during daytime, and after menses. Relieved by
washing with cold water.

Respiratory. — Cough soon after waking in the morn-
ing. Hoarse, aphonia, tickling in larynx; wheezing,
rattling respiration. Cough on talking or singing, in
the morning. Chest feels constricted. Condiments pro-
duce cough. Talking aggravates soreness of chest.

Back. — Stitches, Gnawing pain, as if from hot iron.
Pain along cord, with paralytic weakness.

Extremities. -— Pain in arm and fingers, as if hot iron
penetrated. Arms feel paralyzed. Legs feel asleep,
especially when sitting with legs crossed. Staggers on
walking, Heels feet numb. Soles tender; on stepping,
feel soft and swollen, Pain in shoulder and upper arm.
Gnawing beneath finger nails. Brittle nails. Inability
to walk, except when eyes are open or in daytime.

Sleep. — Restless; anxious and confused dreams.
Sleepy in morning.

Skin. — Chapped and dry. Brittle nails. Intolerable
itching when getting warm in bed. Must scratch until
it bleeds; then becomes painful, Brittle skin on fingers.

Modalities. — Worse, periodically; in afternoon; from
potatoes. Worse, in morning on awaking; warm room.
Better, in open air; from cold washing; in evening and
on alternate days. Better, damp weather.
42 ALUMINA — AMBRA GRISEA

Relationship. — Compare: Silico—Sulphocalcite of
Alumina 3x (anal itching, piles, constipation, flatulent
distention); Secale; Lathyr.; Plumb. Aluminum
acetate solution. (Externally as lotion for putrid
wounds and skin infections.) Alumina silicata, An-
dalasite rock (Alumina 63 and Silica 37 parts). (Deep
acting remedy for chronic complaints of brain, spine
and nerves, Constriction is a marked general symp-
tom, also constriction of orifices. Venous distention.
Weakness, especially spinal. Aching and burning in
spine. Formication, numbness, pain in all limbs. Epi-
leptiform convulsion. Coldness during pains.)

Complementary: Bryonia.

Antidotes: Ipecac.; Chamoi.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth and higher. Action slow
in developing.

AMBRA GRISEA
(Ambergis — A Morbid Secretion of the Whale)

Suitable to excitable. nervous children and_ thin,
nervous patients. Extreme nervous hypersensitiveness.
Externai numbness of whole body in the morning and
weakness. Nervous bilious temperament. Thin,
scrawny women. Adapted to hysterical subjects, or
those suffering from spinal irritation, with convulsive
cough, eructation, etc. Also for patients weakened by
age or overwork, who are anxmic and sleepless, One-
sided complaints call for it. Music aggravates symp-
toms.

Mind.— Dread of people, and desire to be alone.
Cannot do anything in the Presence of others. Music
causes weeping. Despair, loathing of life. Fantastic
illusions. Rashful. Loss of love of life. Restless, ex-
eited, very loquacious, Time passes slowly. Thinking.
difficult in the morning with old people.
AMBRA GRISEA 43

Head.— Slow comprehension. Vertigo, with weak-
ness in head and stomach. Tearing pain in upper half
of brain. Rush of blood to head, when listening to
music. Hcaring impaired, Epistaxis, especially in the
morning. Profuse bleeding from teeth. Hair falls out.

Stomach. —- Eructations, with violent, convulsive
cough. Acid eructations, like heartburn. Distention of
stomach and abdomen after midnight. Sensation of
coldness in abdomen.

Urinary. — Pain in bladder and rectum at the same
time. Burning in orifice of urethra and anus Feeling
in urcthra as if a few drops passed out. Burning and
itching in urethra while urinating. Urine turbid, even
during cmission, forming a brown sediment,

FemaJe.— Nymphomania, Itching of pudendum, with
sorcncss and swelling. Menses too early. Profuse,
bluish leucorrheea. Worse at night. Discharae of blood
between periods, at every little accident.

Male. — Voluptuous itching of scrotum. Parts ex-
ternally numb; burn internally. Violent erections with-
out voluptuous sensations.

Respiratory.— Asthmatic breathing with eructation
of gas. Nervous, spasmodic cough, with hoarseness
and eructation, on waking in morning; worse in pres-
ence of people. Tickling in throat, larynx and trachea,
chest oppressed, gets out of breath when coughing.
Hollow, spasmodic, barking cough, coming from deep
in chest. Choking when hawking up phlegm.

Heart. — Palpitation, with pressure in chest as from
a lump lodged there, or as if chest was obstructed.
Conscious of the pulse. Palpitation in open air with
pale face.

Sleep.— Cannot sleep from worry; must get up.
Anxious dreams. Coldness of body and twitching of
limbs, during sleep.
44 AMBRA GRISEA — AMBROSIA — AMMONIACUM

Skin. — Itching and soreness, especially around geni-
tals. Numbness of skin. Arms “go to sleep.”

Extremities. — Cramps in hands and fingers, worse
grasping anything. Cramps in legs.

Modalities. — Worsc, music; presence of strangers;
from any unusual thing; morning, warm room. Better,
slow motion in open air; lying on painful part; cold
drinks.

Relationship. — Do not confound with Amber — Suc-
cinum, q. v. Moschus frequently follows advantage-
ously. Compare: Oleum succinum (hiccough). Sum-
bul; Castor.; Asaf,

Dose. — Second and third potencies,

AMBROSIA
(Rag- Weed)

A remedy for hay-fever, and some forms of whoop-
ing-cough. Respiratory tract in its entire length stop-
ped up. Many forms of diarrhea, especially during
summer months, also dysentery,

Nose.—- Watery coryza; sneezing; watery discharge.
Nosebleed. Irritation of trachea and bronchial tubes,
with asthmatic attacks. [1ral.; Eucalypt.] Wheezy
cough,

Eyes. — Smart and burn. Lachrymation.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency; 10 drops in water
during and after attack of epistaxis.

AMMONIACUM
(Gum Ammoniac)

A remedy for the aged and feeble, especially in
chronic bronchitis. Il] humor. Sensitive to cold.
* Eyes.-— Dim sight. Stais and fiery points float be-
fore eves. Easily fatigued from reading.
AMMONIACUM — AMMON, BENZ.—- AMMON. BROM. 45

Respiratory. — Throat dry; worse inhaling fresh air.
Difficult breathing. Chronic bronchial catarrh, Large
accumulation of purulent matter and feeble expectora-
tion; worse cold weather. Mucus tough and hard.
Heart beats stronger, extends to pit of stomach, Coarse
rattling of chest in old people.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Bry.; Arnica.

Compare: Senega: Tart. emet.; Balsam Peru.

Dose. — Third trituration.

AMMONIUM BENZOICUM
(Benzoate of Ammonia)

One of the remedies for albuminuria, especially in the
gouty. Gout, with fluid in large toe-joint.

Head. — Heavy, stupid.

Face. — Bloated, swollen eyelids. swelling under
tongue like ranula,

Urine. — Smoky, scanty. Albuminous.

Back. — Pain across sacrum, with urgency to stool.
Soreness in region of right kidney.

Relationship.-- Compare: Terebinth.; Bens. ac.;
Ammonia salts; Caust.

In albuminuria compare: Kalmia; Helon; Merc. cor.;
Berb.; Canth,

Dose. — Second trituration.

AMMONIUM BROMATUM
(Bromide of Ammonia)

Indicated in chronic laryngeal and pharyngeal ca-
tarrh, neuralgic headaches, and obesity. Constructive
pain in head, chest, legs, etc. Irritable feeling under
finger nails; relieved only by biting them.
46 AMMONIUM BROMATUM — AMMONIUM CARB.

Head. — Feeling of a band ubove ears. Sneezing;
thick nasal discharge.

Eyes. — Edges of lids red and swollen, also Meibo-
mian glands. Eyehalls feel large and pain around eyes
into head.

Throat.— Smarting in mouth, Tickling in throat,
with inclination to dry, spasmodic cough, especially at
night. Burning in fauces, White, sticky, mucus.
Chronic speakers’ catarrh. Catarrh of posterior nares
and fauces with thick, stringy mucus.

Respiratory.— Sudden, short cough, strangling.
Tickling in trachea and bronchial tubes. Wakes at 3
A. M. with cough. Feels suffocated; continuous cough,
when lying down at night; sharp pain in lungs. Whoop-
ing Cough. — Dry, spasmodic cough,

Relationship. — Hyos.: Con.; Ary. nit.: Keli dich.

Dose. — First potency.

AMMONIUM CARB
(Carbonate of Ammonia)

The diseased conditions met by this remedy are such
as we find often in rather stout women who are al-
ways tired and weary, take cold easily, suffer from
cholera-like symptoms before menses, lead a sedentary
life, have a slow reaction generally, and are disposed
to frequent use ef the smelling-bottle. Too frequent
and profuse menses. Mucous membranes of the res-
piratory organs are especially affected. Fat patients
with weak heart, wheezing, feel suffocated. Very sen-
sitive to cold air. Great aversion to water; cannot bear
to touch it. Malignant scarlatina, with somnolence,
swollen glands, dark red sore throat, faintly developed
eruption. Urzemia. Heavziness in all organs. Unclean-
AMMONIUM CARB. 47

ness in bodily habits. Swelling of parts, glands, etc.
Acid secretions.

Mind.— Forgetful, ill-humored, gloomy during
stormy weather.

Head. — Pulsating forehead; better, pressure and in
warm room. Shocks through head.

Eyes. — Burning of eyes with aversion to light. Eye-
strain. [Nat. mur.]}

Ears. — Hardness of hearing. Shocks through ears,
eyes, and nose, when gnashing teeth.

Nose. — Discharge of sharp, burning water Stup-
page at night, with long-continued corysa. Cannot
breathe through nose. Snuffles of children. Epistaxis
after washing and ofter eating. Ozena, blows bloody
mucus from nose. Tip of nose congested.

Face. — Tetters around mouth. Boils and pustules,
during menses. Corners of mouth sore, cracked, and
burn,

Mouth. — Great dryness of mouth and throat. Tooth-
ache. Pressing teeth tcegether sends shocks through
head, eyes, and ears. Vesicles on tongue. Taste sour;
metallic. Cracking of jaw on chewing.

Throat. — Enlarged tonsils and glands of neck. Burn-
ing pain all down throat. Tendency to gangrenous ul-
ceration of tonsils, Diphtheria when nose is stopped up.

Stomach. — Pain at pit of stomach, with heartburn,
nausea, waterbrash, and chilliness, Great appetite, but
easily satisfied.

Abdomen. — Noise and pain in abdomen. Filatulent
hernia, Stools difficult, hard, and knotty. Bleeding
piles; worse during menses. Itching at anus. Pro-
truding piles, worse after stool, better lying down.
48 AMMONIUM CARB.

Urine.— Frequent desire; involuntary at night.
Tenesmus of bladder. Urine white, sandy, bloody,
copious, turbid, and fetid.

Male. — Itching and pain of scrotum and spermatic
cords. Erection without desire. Seminal emissions,

Female. — Itching, swelling and burning of puden-
dum. Leucorrhcea burning, acrid, watery. Aversion to
the other sex. Menses too frequent, profuse, early,
copious, clotted, black; colicky pains, and hard, difficult
stool, with fatigue, especially of thighs; yawning and
chilliness,

Respiratory. — Horseness. Cough every morning
about three o’clock, with dyspncea, palpitation, burn-
ing in chest; worse ascending. Chest feels tired. Em-
physema. Much oppression in breathing; worse after
any effort, and entering warm room, or ascending even
a few steps. Slow labored, stertorous breathing; bub-
bling sound. Winter catarrh,, with slimy sputum and
specks of blood.

Heart. — Audible palpitation with fear, cold sweat,
lachrymation, inability to speak, loud breathing and
trembling hands. Heart weak. wakes with difficult
breathing and palpitation.

Extremities. — Tearing in joints relieved by heat of
bed; inclination to stretch limbs. Hands cold and blue;
distended veins. Fingers swell when arm is hanging
,down. Panaritium, dep-seated periosteal pain. Cramps
yin calves and soles, Big toe painful and swollen.
,Felons in the beginning. Heel painful on standing.
Tegaripg in ankle and bones of feet, better when warm

-leep.— Sleepiness during the day. Starts from
sleep strangling.
AMMONIUM CABR.— AMMONIUM CAUSTICUM 49

Skin. — Violent itching and burning blisters. Scarlet
rash. Miliary rash, Malignant scarlatina. Faintly de-
veloped eruptions from defective vitality. Erysipelas
in the aged, with brain symptoms. Eczema in the
bends of extremities, between legs, about anus and
genitals.

Modalities. — Worse, from cold, wet weather, wet
applications, washing, and during 3 to 4 a.M., during
menses. Better, lying on painful side and on stomach;
in dry weather.

Relationship. — Inimical to Lachesis,

Antidotes: Arnica; Camphor.

Compare: Rhus; Muriatic acid; Tartar emet.

Of use in poisoning by charcoal fumes.

Dose. — Lower potencies.

AMMONIUM CAUSTICUM
(Hydrate of Ammonia)

This is a powerful cardiac stimulant. As such in
syncope, thrombosis, hemorrhage, snake-bites, chloro-
form narcosis, may be given by inhalation.

The cedema and ulceration of mucous membranes
produced by this powerful drug have been utilized as
guiding symptoms for its use; hence in membranous
croup with burning in esophagus. Aphonia.

Respiratory. — Difficult respiration. Accumulation of
mucus with incessant coughing. Less of voice. Burning
rawness in throat. Spasm of the glottis with suffocation;
patient gasps for breath. Pain in cesophagus on breath-
ing deeply. Scraping and burning in throat and cesopha-
gus. Uvula covered with white mucus. Nasal diph-
theria, with burning excoriating discharge.

Extremities. — Excessive exhaustion and muscular
debility. Rheumatism of shoulders. Skin hot and dry.

Dose. — First to third potency.
50 AMMONIUM MURIATICUM

AMMONIUM MURIATICUM

(Sal Ammoniac)

A state of prostration bordering on a typhoid state is
produced by this 1emedy. All mucous secretions are
increased and retained. It is especially adapted to fat
and sluggish patients who have respiratory troubles.
A tendency to irregular circulation, blood seems to be
in constant turmoil, pulsations, etc. Many groups of
symptoms are accompanied by cough, profuse glairy se-
cretions. Its periods of aggravations are peculiarly di-
vided as to the bodily region affected; thus the head
an chest symptoms are worse mornings, the abdominal
in the afternoon, the pains in the limbs, the skin and
febrile symptoms, in the evenings. “Boiling” sensation.

Mind. — Melancholy, apprehensive; like from internal
grief. Desire to cry, but cannot. Consequences of grief.

Head. -— Hair falls out, with itchings and dandruff.
Feels full, compressed; worse mornings.

Eyes. —- Mist before eyes, optical illusions in incipient
cataract; capsular cataract.

Nose. — Free acrid, hot watery discharge corroding
the lip. Sneezing. Nose sore to touch; ulcerative pain
in nostrils, Loss of smell. Obstructed, stuffy feeling;
constant and unavailing efforts to blow it out. Itching.

Face. — Inflammatory faceache. Mouth and lips sore
and excoriated.

Throat.— Throbbing in, and swelling of tonsils, can
scarcely swallow. Sore spot behind uvula, relieved by
eating. Internal and external swelling of throat with
viscid phlegm. So tough, it cannot be hawked up. Ton-
sillitis. Stricture of oesophagus.
50 AMMONIUM MURIATICUM

AMMONIUM MURIATICUM

(Sal Ammoniac)

A state of prostration bordering on a typhoid state is
produced by this 1emedy. All mucous secretions are
increased and retained. It is especially adapted to fat
and sluggish patients who have respiratory troubles.
A tendency to irregular circulation, blood seems to be
in constant turmoil, pulsations, etc. Many groups of
symptoms are accompanied by cough, profuse glairy se-
cretions. Its periods of aggravations are peculiarly di-
vided as to the bodily region affected; thus the head
an chest symptoms are worse mornings, the abdominal
in the afternoon, the pains in the limbs, the skin and
febrile symptoms, in the evenings. “Boiling” sensation.

Mind. — Melancholy, apprehensive; like from internal
grief. Desire to cry, but cannot. Consequences of grief.

Head. -— Hair falls out, with itchings and dandruff.
Feels full, compressed; worse mornings.

Eyes. —- Mist before eyes, optical illusions in incipient
cataract; capsular cataract.

Nose. — Free acrid, hot watery discharge corroding
the lip. Sneezing. Nose sore to touch; ulcerative pain
in nostrils, Loss of smell. Obstructed, stuffy feeling;
constant and unavailing efforts to blow it out. Itching.

Face. — Inflammatory faceache. Mouth and lips sore
and excoriated.

Throat.— Throbbing in, and swelling of tonsils, can
scarcely swallow. Sore spot behind uvula, relieved by
eating. Internal and external swelling of throat with
viscid phlegm. So tough, it cannot be hawked up. Ton-
sillitis. Stricture of oesophagus.
AMMONIUM MURIATICUM 51

Stomach. — Thirst for lemonade, regurgitation of
food, bitter waterbrash. Nausea. Gnawing in stomach.
Epigastric pain immediately after eating. Cancer of
stomach.

Abdomen. — Splenic stitches, especially in the morn-
ing, with difficult breathing Pain around navel.
Abdominal symptoms appear during pregnancy. Chronic
congestion of liver. Excessive fatty deposit around
abdomen. Much flatus. Strained feeling in groin.

Rectum. — Jtching and hamorrhoids, soreness with
pustules. Hard, crumbly stool, or covered with glairy
mucus. Stinging in peringum, Green mucus stools
alternate with constipation, During and .after stool,
burning and smarting in rectum. Hemorrhoids after
suppressed leucorrhaea.

Female. — Menses too eariy, too free, dark, clotted;
flow more at night. Pain as if sprained in left side of
abdomen during pregnancy. Diarrhea, greenish
mucous stools, and navel pain during menses. Leucor-
rhoea, like white of an egg [Alum.; Bor.; Calc. p.];
with pain about the navel; brown, slimy after every
urination.

Respiratory.— Hoarseness and burning in laryne.
Dry, hacking, scraping cough; worse lying on back or
right side. Stitches in chest. Cough loose in after-
noon, with profuse expectoration and rattling of mucus.
Oppression of chest. Burning at small spots in chest.
Scanty secretion. Cough with profuse salivation.

Back, —Jcy coldness between shoulders; not relieved
by warm covering, followed by itching. Bruised pain
in coccyx when sitting. Backache, as if in a vise when
sitting.
52 AMMONIUM MUORIATICUM — AMMONIUM PHOSPH.

Extremities. — Pain as from ulceration in finger tips.
Shooting and tearing in tips of finger and toes. Ulcer-
ative pain in heels. Contraction of hamstring ten-
dons. Sciatica, worse sitting, better lying. Neuralgic
pain in amputated limbs. Offensive sweaty feet. Pain
in feet during menses.

Skin. —Itching, generally evenings. Blisters on
various parts. Intense burning better cold applications.

Fever. — Chillincss evenings after lying down and on
awakening, without thirst. Heat in palms and soles.

Modalities. — Better, open air. Worse, head and
chest symptoms in the morning; abdominal symptoms
in the afternoon,

Relationship. — Antidotes: Coffea; Nux; Caust.
Compare: Culcarea; Scnega; Caustic.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency.

AMMONIUM PHOSPHORICUM
(Phosphate of Ammonia)

A remedy for chronic gouty patients; indicated in
bronchitis and nodositics of the joints of the fingers and
backs of the hands. Facial paralysis. Pain in shoulder-
joint. Tightness around chest. Heaviness of limbs,
unsteady, tottering gait. Coldness from least draft of air.

Head. — Sneezing with excessive running from nose
and eyes, only in morning.

Respiratory. — Deep rough cough with greenish ex-
pectoration.

Urine. — Rose-colored sediment.
Doge. — Third decima! trituration,
AMMON, PICRATUM—AMPELOPSIS—AMYG, PERSICA 53

AMMONIUM PICRATUM
(Picrate of Ammonia)

A remedy for malarial fever and neuralgias and so-
called bilious headaches. Pain in occiput and mastoid
region,

Head. — Periodical neuralgia in right side of occiput;
boring extends to ear, orbit, and jaw. Vertigo on rising.
Periodic bilious headaches. [Sanguin. ]

Dose.—Third trituration.

AMPELOPSIS
(Virginia Creeper)

Renal dropsies, hydrocele, and chronic hoarseness in
scrofulous patients have been benefited by this drug.
Choleric symptoms. Generally worse about 6 p.m. Di-
lated pupils. Left costal region sore and_ sensitive.
Elbow joints pain, back scre. Soreness of all limbs.
Vomiting, purging with tenesmus. Rumbling in ab-
domen.

Dose. — Second to third potency.

AMYGDALUS PERSICA
(Peach Bark)

A most valuable remedy in vomiting of various kinds;
morning sickness, Irritation of eyes.

Hemorrhage from the bladder.

Gastric irritation of children; no form of food
tolerated. Loss of smell and taste. Gastric and in-
testinal irritation when the tongue is elongated and
pointed, tip and edges red.
54 AMYGDALUS PERSICA— AMYL NITROSUM

Relationship. — Compare: Amygd. amara — Bitter Al-
mond. (Pains through tonsils, throat dark, difficult
swallowing, vomiting, cough with sore chest.

Dose. — Fresh infusion or mother tincture.

AMYL NITROSUM
(Amy] Nitrite)

On inhaling this drug, it rapidly dilates all arterioles
and capillaries, producing flushing of face, heat, and
throbbing in the head. Palpitation of the heart and.
similar conditions are readily cured by it, especially the

~flushings and other discomforts at climacteric. Hiccough
and yawning, Often relieves temporarily epileptic con-
vulsions,

Head. — Anvicty, as if something might happen; must
have fresh air. Surging of blood to head and face;
sensation as if biond would start through skin, with heat
and redness. Flushings, followed by sweat at climacteric.
Ears hyperemic. Throbbing.

Throat. — Constriction; collar seems too tight.

Chest. — Dyspnoea and asthmatic feelings. Great op-
pression and fullness of chest; spasmodic, suffocative
cough, Precordial anxiety. Tumultuous action of heart.
Pain and constriction around heart. Fluttering at slight-
est excitement.

Female. — After-pains; hemorrhage associated with
facial flushing, Climacteric headache and flushes of heat,
with anxiety and palpitation.

Fever.— Much flushing of heat; sometimcs followed
id and clammy skin and profuse sweat. Throbbing
WHughout whole body. Abnormal sweat after influenza.
AMYL NITROSUM — ANACARDIUM 55

Extremities. — Constant stretching for hours. Veins
cf hands dilated; pulsations felt in tips of fingers.

Relationship. — Compare: Glonoine; Lachests.

Antidotes: Cactus; Strychn.; Ergot.

Dose. — Third potency.

For palliations. In all conditions where the blood-
vessels are spasmodically contracted, as in angina pec-"
toris, epileptic seizure, megrim, accompanied by cold,
pallor, etc., also in paroxysms of asthma, inhalation of
the Amyl. nit. will give immediate relief. For this non-
homeopathic application, two to five minims. (put up in
fearls) dropped on a handkerchief may be required

ANACARDIUM: 0:
(Marking Nut)

The Anacardium patient is ‘found mostly among the
neurasthenics; such have a type of nervous dyspepsia,
relieved by food; impaired memory, depression, and
irritability ; diminution of senses (smell, sight, hearing).
Syphilitic patients often suffer with these conditions.
Intermittency of symptoms Fear of examination in
students.

Aversion to work; lacks self-confidence; irresistible
desire to swear and curse. Sexsation of a plug in various
parts — eyes, rectum, bladder, etc., also of a band.
Empty feeling in stomach; cating temporarily relieves
all discomfort. This is a sure indication, often verified.
Its skin symptoms are similar to Rhus, and it has proved
a valuable antidote to Poison-Oak.

Mind. — Fixed ideas. Hallucinations, thinks he ts
possessed of two persons or wills, Anxiety when walk-
ing, as if pursued. Profound melancholy and nypo-
56 ANACARDIUM

chondriasis, with tendency to use violent language.
Brain-fag. Impaired memory. Very casily offended.
Malicious; seems bent on wickedness. Lack of con-
fidence in himself or others. Suspicious [Hyos.].
Clairaudient, hears voices far away or of the dead.

Head.— Vertigo. Pressing pain, as from a plug;
worse after mental exertion—in forehead; occiput,
temples, vertex; better during a meal. Itching and little
boils on scalp,

Eyes. — Pressure like a plug on upper orbit. Indis-
tinct vision.- Objects appear too far off.

Ears. — Pressing in the ears as from a plug. Hard
of hearing.

Nose. — Frequent sneezing. Sense of smell perverted.
Coryza with palpitation, especially in the aged.

Face. — Blue rings around eyes. Face pale. :

Mouth. — Painful vesicles; fetid odor. Tongue feels
swollen. impeding speech and motion, with saliva in
mouth. Burning around lips as from pepper.

_ Stomach. — Weak digestion, with fullness and dis-
tention, Empty feeling in stomach. Eructation, nausea.
vomiting, Eating relicves the Anacardium dyspepsia.
Apt to choke when eating or drinking. Swallows food
and drinks hastily.

Abdomen. — Pain as if dull plug were pressed into in-
testincs. Rumbling, pinching, and griping.

Rectum. -— Bowels inactive. Jneffectual desire; rec-
tum seems powerless. as if plugged up; spasmodic con-
yiction of sphincter ani; even soft stool passes with

ifficulty, Itching at anus; maisture from rectum.
‘Hemorrhage during stool, Painful hamorrhoids.
{Nitr. ac.; Hyper.; Ratanh.]
ANACARDIUM 57

Male. — Voluptuous itching; increased desire; semi-
nal emissions without dreams. Prostatic discharge dur-
ing stool.

Female. — Leucorrheea, with soreness and _ itching.
Menses scanty.

Respiratory. — Pressure in chest, as from a dull plug.
Oppression of chest, with internal heat and anxiety,
driving him into open air, Cough excited by talking, in
children, after fit cf temper. Cough after eating with
vomiting of food and pain in occiput.

Heart. —- Palpitation, with weak memory, with coryza
in the aged; stitches in heart region. Rheumatic peri-
carditis with double stitches.

Back. — Dull pressure in the shoulders, as from a
weight. Stiffness at nape of neck. ;

Extremities. — Neuralgia in thumb. Paralytic weak-
ness. Knees feel paralyzed or bandaged. Cramp in
calves. Pressure as from a plug in the glutei. Warts
on palms of hands. Fingers swollen with vesicular
eruption.

Sleep. — Spells of sleeplessness lasting for several
nights. Anxious dreams.

Skin. — Intense itching eczema, with mental irrita-
bility; vesicular eruption; swelling, urticaria; eruption
like that of Poison-Oak. [Xerophyl.; Grindel.; Croton.]
Lichen planus; neurotic eczema.

Modalities. — !’orse, on application of hot water,
Better, from eating. When lying on side, from rub-
bing and talking hold of anything.

Relationship. — Antidote: Grindelia; Coffea; Juglans;
Rhus.

Compare: .4nacard. occidentale (cashew nut) (ery-
sipelas, vesicular facial eruptions), anesthetic variety of
58 ANACARDIUM —— ANAGALLIS§ — ANATHERUM

leprosy; warts, corns, ulcers, cracking of the skin on
soles of fect). Rhus; Cypriped.; Chelidon.; Xerophyl.
Platina follows well.
Dose. —- Sixth to two hundredth potency.

ANAGALLIS
(Scarlet Pimpernel)

Marked action on skin, characterized by great itch-
ing and tingling everywhere. Favors expulsion of
splinters. An old medicine for hydrophobia and dropsy.
Possesses power of softening flesh and destroying warts.

Head. — Great hilarity; headache over supra-orhital
ridges, with rumbling in bowels and eructations; better
trom coffee. Pain in facial muscles.

Extremities. — Rheumatic and gouty pains. Pain in
shoulder and arm, Cramp in ball of thumbs and fingers.

Urine. — More or less irritation in urethra, inclining
to coition. Burning pain on urinating, with agglutina-
tion of orifice. Urine passes in several streams; must
press befure it passes.

Skin. —/iching; dry, bran-like eruption, especially on
hands and fingers. Palms especially affected. Vesicles
in groups. Ulcers and swellings on joints,

Relationship. — Anagallis contains Saponin, q. v.

Compare: Cyclainen; Primula obcon.

Dose. — First to third potency.

ANATHERUM
(Cuscus — An East Indian Grass)

A skin remedy of high order.

Painful swelling of various parts, going on to sup-
Biration. Glandular inflammation.
*% Blead. — Pains pierce brain like pointed arrows; worse
ANATHERUM — ANHALONIUM 59

in afternoon. Herpes, ulcers, and tumors on scalp.
Wartlike growth on eyebrows. Boils and tumors on tip
of nose, Tongue fissured, as if cut on edges; copious
salivation.

Urine. — Turbid, thick, full of mucus. Constant urg-
ing. Bladder cannot hold smallest quantity. Involun-
tary. Cystitis,

Sexual. -— Chancre-like sores. Scirrhus-like swelling
of cervix, Breasts swollen, indurated, nipples excori-
ated,

Skin. — Diseased and deformed nails. Offensive foot-
sweat. Albscesses, boils, ulcers. Erysipelas. Pruritus,
herpes:

Relationship. — Compare: Staphisay.; Mercur.; Thuja.

Dose. — Third potency.

ANHALONIUM
(Mescal Button)

Causes a form of intoxication accompanied by won-
derful visions, remarkably beautiful and varied kaleido-
scopic changes, and a sensation of increased physical
ability. A remedy for brain-tag, delirium, megrim, hal-
lucinations, with colored brilliant visions. Motor inco-
ordination. Extreme muscular depression; increased
patellar reflex. Paraplegia.

Mind. — Loss of conception of time. Difficult enun-
ciation. Distrust and resentment. Lazy contentment.

Head. — Aches, with disturbed vision. Fantastic,
orilliant, moving colored objects. Affected by beating
time. Pupils dilated, vertigo, brain tired. Polychrome
spectra, Exaggerated reverberation of ordinary sounds.

Dose. — Tincture.
60 ANEMOPSIS CALIFORNICA — ANGUSTURA VERA

ANEMOPSIS CALIFORNICA
(Yerba Mansa — Household Herb)

Chief value in catarrhal stutcs, Not yet proven, but
found useful in profuse mucous or serous discharges;
in nasal and pharyngeal catarrh, diarrhoea and urethritis.
Recommended in heart disease, as a quicting agent when
unduly excited. Flatulence; promotes digestion.

Dose. — The tincture internally and locally.

ANGUSTURA VERA
(Bark of Galipea Cusparia)

Rheumatic and paralytic complaints — great difficulty
in walking, Cracking in all joints.

The greatest craving for coffee is a characteristic
symptom. Caries of long bones. Paralysis. ‘Tetanus.
Stiffness of muscles and joints. Oversensitive,

Principal action on spinal motor nerves and mucous
membranes.

Head. — Oversensitive. Headache, with heat of face.
Acute pain in cheeks. Drawing in facial muscles, Pain
in temporal muscles, when opening the jaws. Pain in
articulation of jaw, in masseter muscles, as if fatigued
by chewing too much, Cramp-pain on the zygomatic
arch,

Stomach. — Bitter taste. Irresistible desire for coffee.
Pain from navel into sternum. Atonic dyspepsia, Belch-
ing, with cough. [.4mbra.]

Abdomen. — Diarrhoea and colic. Tenesmus with soft
; ptool ; chronic. diarrhoea, with debility and loss of flesh.
Burning in anus.
60 ANEMOPSIS CALIFORNICA — ANGUSTURA VERA

ANEMOPSIS CALIFORNICA
(Yerba Mansa — Household Herb)

Chief value in catarrhal stutcs, Not yet proven, but
found useful in profuse mucous or serous discharges;
in nasal and pharyngeal catarrh, diarrhoea and urethritis.
Recommended in heart disease, as a quicting agent when
unduly excited. Flatulence; promotes digestion.

Dose. — The tincture internally and locally.

ANGUSTURA VERA
(Bark of Galipea Cusparia)

Rheumatic and paralytic complaints — great difficulty
in walking, Cracking in all joints.

The greatest craving for coffee is a characteristic
symptom. Caries of long bones. Paralysis. ‘Tetanus.
Stiffness of muscles and joints. Oversensitive,

Principal action on spinal motor nerves and mucous
membranes.

Head. — Oversensitive. Headache, with heat of face.
Acute pain in cheeks. Drawing in facial muscles, Pain
in temporal muscles, when opening the jaws. Pain in
articulation of jaw, in masseter muscles, as if fatigued
by chewing too much, Cramp-pain on the zygomatic
arch,

Stomach. — Bitter taste. Irresistible desire for coffee.
Pain from navel into sternum. Atonic dyspepsia, Belch-
ing, with cough. [.4mbra.]

Abdomen. — Diarrhoea and colic. Tenesmus with soft
; ptool ; chronic. diarrhoea, with debility and loss of flesh.
Burning in anus.
ANGUST. VERA — ANILINUM — ANTHEMIS NoBILIS 61

Back. — Itching along back. Pain in cervical ver-
tebre. Drawing in the neck. Pain in spine, at nape of
neck and sacrum, worse on pressure. Twitching and
jerking along back. Bends backward,

Extremities. — Stiffness and tension of muscles and
joints. Pain in limbs on walking. Arms tired and
heavy. Caries of long hones. Coldness of fingers. Pain
in knees. Cracking in joints.

Skin. -~ Caries, very painful ulcers which affect the
bone.

Relationship. -—- Compare: Nua; Ruto, Mercur.;
Brucca—Bark of Nux vomica or angustura falsa.
(Tetanic spasms with undisturbed consciousness, worse
noise, liguids, paralyzed lower extremities.)

Dose. -—— Sixth potency.

ANILINUM
(Coal Tar Product —. Amidobenzene)

Marked giddiness and pain in head; face has a purple
hue. Pain in penis and scrotum with swelling. Tumors
of the urinary passages. Profound anemia with dis-
coloration of skin, blue lips, anorexia, gastric disturb-
ances. Swelling of skin.

Relationship. — Compare: 4rsenic; Antipyrin.

ANTHEMIS NOBILIS
(Roman Chamomile)

This remedy is akin to the ordinary Chamomilla.

Respiratory.— Coryza with much lachrymation,
sneezing, and discharge of clear water from the nose
Symptoms worse indoors. Constriction and rawness of
throat. Cough, tickling; worse in warm room.
62 ANTHEMIS NOBILIS — ANTHRACINUM

Abdomen. —- Aching in region of liver; griping and
chilliness inside of abdomen and into legs. Itching of
anus, with white putty-like stools.

Urinary. — Bladder feels distended. Pain along sper-
matic cord, which feels full, as if varicosed. Frequent
urination.

Skin. — Itching of the soles, as if from chitblains.
Goose-flesh,

Dose. — Use the third potency.

ANTHRACINUM
(Anthrax Poison)

This nosode has proven a great remedy in epidemic
spleen diseases of domestic anima!s, and in septic in-
flammation, carbuncles, and maliguant ulcers. In boils
and boil-like eruptions, acne. Terrible burning. In-
duration of cellular tissue, abscess, bubo, and all in-
flammation of connective tissue in which there exists
a purulent focus.

Tissues.—Hemorrhages, black, thick, tar-like, rapidly
decomposing, from any orifice. Glands swollen, cel-
lular tissues @dematous and indurated. Septicemia.
Ulceration, sloughing, and intolerable burning. Ery-
sipelas. Black and blue blisters. Dissecting wounds.
Insect stings. Bad effects from inhaling foul odors.
Gangrenous parotitis. Succession of boils.

Relationship. — Similar tu Arsenic, which it often
follows. Compare: Pyrogen; Lachesis; Crotalus; Hip-
poze; Echinac.; Silica follows well.

Dose. — Thirtieth potency.
ANTHRAKOKALI — ANTIMONIUM ARS.— ANT. CRUD. 63

. ANTHRAKOKALI
(Anthracite Coal Dissolved in Boiling Caustic Potash)

Useful in skin affections, scabies, prurigo, chronic
herpes, cracks and ulcerations. Intense thirst. Chronic
rheumatism. Bilious attacks, vomiting of bile, tympanic
distention of abdomen.

Dose. — Low triturations.

ANTIMONIUM ARSENICOSUM
(Arsenite of Antimony)

Found useful in emphysema with excessive dyspnea
and cough. Worse on eating and lying down. Catar-
rhal pneumonia. Pleurisy, especially of left side, with
exudation, and pericarditis, with effusion. Sense of
weakness. Inflammation of eyes and cedema of face.

Dose. — Third trituration.

ANTIMONIUM CRUDUM
(Black Sulphide of Antimony)

For homeopathic employment, the mental symptoms,
and those of the gastric sphere, determine its choice.
Excessive writability and fretfulness, together with a
thickly-coated white tongue, are true guiding symptoms
to many forms of disease calling for this remedy. All
the conditions are aggravated by heat and cold bathing.
Cannot bear heat of sun. Tendency to grow fat. An
absence of pain, where it could be expected, is notice-
able. Gout with gastric symptoms.

Mind. — Much concerned about his fate. Cross and
contradictive; whatever is done fails to give satisfac-
tion. Sulky; does not wish to speak. Peevish; vexed
64 ANTIMONIUM CRUDUM

without cause. Child cannot bear to be touched or
looked at. Angry at every little attention. Sentimental
mood.

Head. — Aching, worse in vertex, on ascending, from
bathing, from disordered stomach, especially from eat-
ing candy or drinking acid wines. Suppressed erup-
tions. Heaviness in forehead, with vertigo; nausea, and
nosebleed. Headache with great loss of hair.

Eyes. — Dull, sunken, red, itch, inflamed, agglutin-
ated. Canthi raw and fissured. Chronic blepharitis.
Pustules on cornea and lids,

Ears.—Redness; swelling; pain in eustachian tube.
Ringing and deafness. Moist eruption around ear.

Nose.— Nostrils chapped and covered with crusts.
Ecsema of nostrils, sore, cracked and scurfy.

Face. — Pimples, pustules, and boils on face. Yellow
crusted eruption on chicks and chin. Sallow and
haggard.

Meuth.-—- Cracks in corners of mouth, Dry lips.
Saltish saliva. Much slimy mucus. Tongue coated
thick white, as tf whitewashed. Gums detach from
teeth; bleed easily. Toothache in hollow teeth. Raw-
ness of palate, with expectoration of much mucus.
Canker sores. Pappy taste. Sub-acute eczema about
mouth.

Throat. — Much thick yellowish mucus from posterior
nares Hawking in open air.

Stomach.— Loss of appetite. Desire fer acids,
pickles, Thirst in evening and night. Eruciaton tast-
ing of the ingesta. Heartburn, nausea, vomiting. After
nursing, the child vomits its milk in curds, and refuses
to nurse afterwards, and is very cross. Gastric and
ANTIMONIUM CRUDUM 65

intestinal complaints from bread and pastry, acids, sour
wine, cold bathing, overheating, hot weather. Constant
belching. Gouty metastasis to stomach and bowels.
Sweetish waterbrash. Bloating after cating.

Stool. — Anal itching. [Sulpho-Calc. Alum.] Diar-
rhea alternates with constipation, especially in old peo-
ple. Diarrhcea after acids, sour wine, baths, overeat-
ing; slimy, flatulent stools. Mucous piles, continued
oozing of mucus. Hard lumps mixed with watery dis-
charge. Catarrhal proctitis. Stools composed entirely
of mucus.

Urine. — Frequent, with burning, and backache; tur-
bid and foul odor.

Male. —- Eruption on scrotum and about genitals. Im-
potence. Atrophy of penis and testicles.

Female. — Excited; parts itch. Before menses, tooth-
ache; menses too early and profuse. Menses sup-
pressed from cold bathing, with feeling of pressure in
pelvis and tenderness in ovarian region. Leucorrhcea
watery; acrid, lumpy.

Respiratory, — Cough worse coming into warm room,
with burning sensation in chest, itching of chest, op-
pression. Loss of voice from hecoming overheated.
Voice harsh and badly pitched,

Back. — Itching and pain of neck and back.

Extremities. — Twitching of muscles. Jerks in arms.
Arthrilic pain in fingers. Nails brittle; grow out of
» shape. Horny warts on hands and soles. Weakness
and shaking of hands in writing followed by offensive
flatulence. Feet very tendcr; covered with large horny
places. Inflamcd corns.

Skin. — Eczema with gastric derangements. Pimples,
vesicles, and pustules. Thick, hard, honey-colored
66 ANTIMONIUM CRUD. — ANTIMONIUM SULPH, AUR.

scabs, Urticaria; measle-like eruption. Itching when
warm in bed. Dry skin. Warts. [Thuja; Sa-
bina; Caust.] Dry gangrene. Scaly, pustular eruption
with burning and itching, worse at night.

Sleep. — Continual drowsiness in old people.

Fever. — Chilly even in warm room. Intermittent
with digust, nausea, vomiting, eructations, coated
tongue, diarrhoea. Hot sweat.

Modalities. — Worse in evening, from heat, acids,
wine, water, and washing. Wet poultices. Bctter in
open air, during rest.

Relationship. — Compare: <Antimonium Chloridum.
Butter of Antimony. (A remedy for cancer. Mucous
membranes destroyed. Abrasions. Skin cold and
clammy. Great prostration of strength. Dose — Third
trituration.)

aIntimon, jodat. (Uterine hyperplasia; humid
asthma. Pneumonia and bronchitis: loss of strength
and appetite, yellowish skin.) uls.; Ipec.; Sulph.

Complementary: Sulph,

Antidote: Hepar.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency.

ANTIMONIUM SULPHURATUM AURATUM
(Golden Sulphuret of Antimony)

A remarkable remedy for many forms of chronic
nasal and bronchial catarrh. Acne. Amaurosis.

Nose and Throat. —Noscblecd on washing. Increased
secretion in nose and throat. Rough and scrapy feel-
ing. Loss of smell. Metallic styptic taste.

Respiratory. -— Tickling in larynx. Increased mucus
with, fullness in bronchi. Respiration difficult, pressure
ANTIMONIUM SULPH. AUR, — ANTIMONIUM TART, 67.

in bronchi, with constriction. Tough mucus in bronchi
and larynx. Dry hard cough. Congestion of upper
lobe of left lung. Winter coughs, patient is sore all
over. Pneumonia, when hepatization occurred and
resolution failed to take place.

Skin. — Acne (pustular variety). Itching on hands
and feet.

Dose. — Second or third trituration.

ANTIMONIUM TARTARICUM
(Tartar Emetic. Tartrate of Antimony and Potash)

Has many symptoms in common with Antimonium
Crudum, but also many peculiar to itself. Clinically,
its therapeutic application has been confined largely to
the treatment of respiratory diseases, raitling of mucus
with little expectoration has been a guiding symptom.
There is much drowsiness, debility and sweat charac-
teristic of the drug, which group should always be more
or less present, when the drug is prescribed. Gastric
affections of drunkards and gouty subjects. Cholera
morbus. Sensation of coldness in blood-vessels. Bil-
harsiasis, Antimonium tart is homeopathic to dysuria
strangury, hematuria, albuminuria, catarrh of blad-
der and urethra, burning in rectum, bloody mucous
stools, etc. Antimon tart acts indirectly on the para-
sites by stimulating the oxidizing action of the pro-
tective substance.

Trembling of whole body, great prostration and faint-
ness. Lumbago. Chills, contractures and muscular
pains,

Mind and Head. — Vertigo alternates with drowsi-
ness. Great despondency. Fear of being alone. Mutter-
ing, delirium, and stupor. Vertigo, with dullness and
confusion. Band-like feeling over forehead. Face pale
and sunken. Child will not be touched without whin-
68 ANTIMONIUM TARTARICUM

ing. Headache as from a band compressing. [Nit. ac.;
Carbol. ac.}
Tongue. — Coated, pasty, thick white, with red edges.
Red and dry, especially in the center. Brown.
Face. — Cold, blue, pale; covered with cold sweat.
Incessant quivering of chin and lower jaw. [Gelsem.]
Stomach. — Difficult deglutition of liquids. Vomiting
in any position, excepting lying on right side. Nausea,
retching, and vomiting, especially after food, with
deathly faintness and prostration. Thirst for cold
water, litile and often, and desire for apples, fruits,
and acids generally. Nausea produces fear; with
pressure in precordial region, followed by headache
with yawning and lachrymation and vomiting.
Abdomen. — Spasmodic colic, much flatus. Pressure
in abdomen, especially on stooping forward. Cholera
morbus Diarrhoea in eruptive diseases.
Urinary. — Burning in urethra during and after uri-
nating. Last drops bloody with pain in bladder. Urging
increased. Catarrh of bladder and urethra,
Respiratory Organs. — Hoarseness. Great rattling of
mucus, but very little is expectorated. Velvety feeling
in chest. Burning sensation in chest, which ascends to
throat. Rapid, short, difficult breathing: seems as if he
would suffocate; must sit up. Coughing and gaping
consecutively, Bronchial tubes overloaded with mucus.
Cough excited by eating, with pain in chest and larynx.
G'dema und impending paralysis of lungs. Much pal-
pitation, with uncomfortable hot feeling. Pulse rapid,
weak, trembling. Dizziness, with cough. Dyspncea re-
lieved by eructation. Cough and dyspnoea better lying
on right side — (opposite Badiaga).
Back. -—}ioleut pain in sacro-lumbar region. Slight-
est effort to move may cause retching and cold, clammy
sweat. Sensation of heavy weight at the coceyx, drag-
ANTIMONIUM TARTARICUM — ANTIPYRINE 69
ging downward all the timc, Twitching of muscles;
limbs tremulous.

Skin. — Pustular eruption, leaving a bluish-red mark.
Small-pox. Warts.

Fever. — Coldness, trembling, and chilliness. Tntense
heat. Copious perspiration. Cold, clammy sweat, with
great faintness. Intermittent fever with lethargic con-
dition,

Sleep. —- Great drowsiness. On falling asleep electric-
like shocks. Irresistible inclination to sleep with nearly
all complaints.

Modalities. — Worse, in evening: from iying down at
night; from warmth; in damp cold weather; from all
sour things and milk. Better, from sitting erect; from
eructation and expectoration.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Puls.; Scpia.

Compare: Kali sulph.; Ipecac.

Dose. — Second and sixth trituration. The lower po-
tency sometimes aggravates.

ANTIPYRINE
(Phenazone— A Coal-tar Derivative)

Antipyrine is one of the drugs that induce leucocy-
tosis, similar to ergotin, salicylates, and tuberculin. Acts
especially on the vaso-motor centers, causing dilation of
capillaries of skin and consequent circumscribed patches
of hyperemia and swellig. In large doses causes pro-
fuse perspiration, dizziness, cyanosis, and somnolence,
albumen and blood in urine.

Mind. — Fear of becoming insane; nervous anxiety;
hallucinations of sight and hearing.

Head. — Throbbing headache; sensation of constric-
tion, Flashes of heat. Headache under ears with ear-
che,
70 ANTIPYRINE — APIS MELLIFICA

Eyes. — Puffiness of lids. Conjunctiva red and ceode-
matous, with lachrymation. Red spots. [Apis.]

Ears. — Pains and buzzing. Tinnitus.

Face. — Cidema and puffiness. Red and swollen.

Mouth. — Swelling of lips. Burning of mouth and
gums. Ulceration of lips and tongue; vesicles and bull.
Small lump in cheek. Tongue swollen, Bloody saliva.
Toothache along lower jaw.

Throat. — Pain on swallowing. Expectoration of fetid
pus. Abscess, white false membrane. Sensation of
burning.

Stomach. — Nausea and vomiting; burning and pain.

Urine. — Diminished. Penis black.

Female. — Itching and burning in vagina. Menses
suppressed, Watery leucorrhcea.

Respiratory. -— Fluent coryza. Nasal mucous mem-
brane swollen. Dull pains in frontal sinus. Aphonia.
Oppression and dyspnoea. Cheyne-Stokes respiration.

Heart. — Faintness, with sensation of stoppage of
heart. Throbbing throughout the body. Rapid, weak,
irregular pulse.

Nerves. — Epileptiform seizures. Contractures. Trem-
bling and cramps. Crawling and numbness. General
prostration.

Skin. — Erythema, eczema, pemphigus. Intense pru-
ritus. Urticaria, appearing and disappearing suddenly,
with internal coldness. Angioneurotic-eedema. Dark
blotches on skin of penis, sometimes with cedema.

Dose. --- Second decimal potency.

APIS MELLIFICA
(The Honey-Bee)

Acts on cellular tissues causing odema of skin and
mucous membranes.
70 ANTIPYRINE — APIS MELLIFICA

Eyes. — Puffiness of lids. Conjunctiva red and ceode-
matous, with lachrymation. Red spots. [Apis.]

Ears. — Pains and buzzing. Tinnitus.

Face. — Cidema and puffiness. Red and swollen.

Mouth. — Swelling of lips. Burning of mouth and
gums. Ulceration of lips and tongue; vesicles and bull.
Small lump in cheek. Tongue swollen, Bloody saliva.
Toothache along lower jaw.

Throat. — Pain on swallowing. Expectoration of fetid
pus. Abscess, white false membrane. Sensation of
burning.

Stomach. — Nausea and vomiting; burning and pain.

Urine. — Diminished. Penis black.

Female. — Itching and burning in vagina. Menses
suppressed, Watery leucorrhcea.

Respiratory. -— Fluent coryza. Nasal mucous mem-
brane swollen. Dull pains in frontal sinus. Aphonia.
Oppression and dyspnoea. Cheyne-Stokes respiration.

Heart. — Faintness, with sensation of stoppage of
heart. Throbbing throughout the body. Rapid, weak,
irregular pulse.

Nerves. — Epileptiform seizures. Contractures. Trem-
bling and cramps. Crawling and numbness. General
prostration.

Skin. — Erythema, eczema, pemphigus. Intense pru-
ritus. Urticaria, appearing and disappearing suddenly,
with internal coldness. Angioneurotic-eedema. Dark
blotches on skin of penis, sometimes with cedema.

Dose. --- Second decimal potency.

APIS MELLIFICA
(The Honey-Bee)

Acts on cellular tissues causing odema of skin and
mucous membranes.
APIS MELLIFICA 71

The very characteristic effects of the sting of the
bee furnish unerring indications for its employment
in disease. Swelling or puffing up of various parts,
cedema, red rosy hue, stinging pains, soreness, intoler-
ance of heat, and afternoon aggravation are some of
the general guiding symptoms. Erysipelatous inflamma-
tions, dropsical effusions and anasarca, acute, inflam-
mation of kidneys, and other parenchymatous tissues
are characteristic pathological states corresponding to
Apis. Extreme sensitiveness to touch and general sore-
ness is marked. Constricted sensations. Sensation as
of something torn off in the interior of the body.

Mind.—- Apathy, indifference, and unconsciousness.
Awkward; drops things readily. Stupor, with sudden
sharp cries and startings. Stupor alternating with erotic
mania. Sensation of dying. Listless; cannot think clearly.
Jealous, fidgety, hard to please. Sudden shrill, piercing
screams. Whining. Tearfulness. Jealousy, fright, rage,
vexation, grief.

Head, — Whole brain feels very tired. Vertigo with
sneezing, worse on lying or closing eyes. Heat, throb-
bing, distensive pains, better on pressure, and worse
on motion. Sudden stabbing pains. Dull, heavy sensa-
tion in occiput, as from a blow, extending to neck (better
on pressure), accompanied with sexual excitement. Bores
head into pillow and screams out.

Eyes. — Lids swollen, red, e@dematous, everted, in-
flamed; burn and sting. Conjunctiva bright red, puffy.
Lachrymation hot. Photophobia, Sudden piercing pains.
Pain around orbits. Serous exudation, edema, and sharp
pains, Suppurative inflammation of eyes. Keratitis with
intense chemosis of ocular conjunctiva, Staphyloma of
cornea following suppurative inflammation. Styes, also
prevents their recurrence.
72 APIS MELLIFICA

Ears.— External ear red, inflamed, sore; stinging
pains.

Nose. — Coldness of tip of nose. Red, swollen, in-
flamed, with sharp pains.

Face. — Swollen, red, with piercing pain. Waxy, pale,
ceedematous. [Acet. ac.]

Mouth.— Tongue swollen, sore, and raw, with
vesicles. Scalding in mouth and throat. Tongue feels
scalded, red hot, trembling. Gums swollen. Lips swol-
len, especially upper. Membrane of mouth and throat
glossy, as if varnished, Red, shining, and puffy, like
erysipelas,

Throat. — Constricted, stinging pains. Uvula swollen,
sac-like. Throat swollen, inside and out; tonsils swollen,
puffy, fiery red. Ulcers on tonsils, Fiery red margin
around leathery membrane. Sensation of fishbone in
throat.

Stomach. — Sore feeling. Thristless, Vomiting of
food. Craving for milk. [Rhus.]

Abdomen. —- Sorc, bruised on pressure, when sneez-
ing. Extremely tender. Dropsy of abdomen. Peri-
tonitis. Swelling in right groin.

StooL — Involuntary on every motion; anus secms
open, Bloody, painless, Anus feels raw. Hemorrhoids,
with stinging pain, after confinement. Diarrhea watery,
yellow; cholera infantum tvpc. Cannot urinate without
a stool. Dark, fetid, worse after eating. Constipation ;
feels as if something would break on straining.

Urine. — Burning and soreness when urinating. Sup-
pressed, loaded with casts; frequent and involuntary;
stinging pain and strangury; scanty, high colored. In-
continence. Last drops burn and smart.

Female. — (Edema of labia; relieved by cold water.
Soreness and stinging pains; worse in right ovary.
APIS MELLIFICA 73

Menses suppressed, with cerebral and head symptoms,
especially in young girls. Dysmenorrhoa, with severe
ovarian pains. Metrorrhagia profuse, with heavy
abdomen, faintness, stinging pain. Sense of tightness.
Bearing-down, as if menses were to appear. Ovarian
tumors, metritis with stinging pains. |

Respiratory. — Hoarseness; dyspnoea, breathing hur-
ried and difficult. C&dema of larynx. Feels as if he
could not draw another breath. Suffocation; short, dry
cough, suprasternal. Hydrothorax.

Extremities. — CEdematous. Synovitis. Knee swollen,
shiny, sensitive, sore, with stinging pain. Feet swollen
and stiff. Feel too large. Rheumatic pain in back and
limbs. Tired, bruised feeling.

Skin. — Swellings after bites; sore, sensitive. Sting-
ing. Erysipelas, with sensitiveness and swelling, rosy
hue. Urticaria. Carbuncles, with burning, stinging pain.
[-trs.; Anthrac.] Sudden puffing up of whole body.

Sleep. — Very drowsy. Dreams full of care and toil.
Screams and sudden starting during sleep.

Fever. — ficrnoon c'till, with thirst; worse on mo-
tion and heat, External heat, with smothering feeling.
Sweat slight, with sleepiness, Perspiration breaks out
and dries up freqnently. Sleeps after the fever parox-
ysm, After perspiration, nettle rash, also with shud-
dering.

Modalities. — Worse, warmth in any form; touch;
pressure; late in afternoon; after sleeping; in closed
and heated rooms. Right side. Better, in open air, un-
covering, and cold bathing.

Relationship—Complementary: Nat, mur. The
“chronic,” Apis.; also Baryta carb, Inimical. Rhus. _

Compare: Apium virus (auto-toxemia, with pus prod-
ucts)" Zinc.; Canth.; Vespa; Lathesis,
74 APIS MELLIFICA — APIUM GRAVEOLENS

Dose. — Tincture to thirtieth potency. Sometimes
action is slow; so several days elapse before it is seen
to act, and then urine is increased, Apium virus, sixth
trituration.

APIUM GRAVEOLENS
(Common Celery)

Obstinate retention of urine, throbbing headaches and
heartburn, have been produced by celery. Swelling of
throat, face, and hands. Dysmenorrhza.

Head. — Depressed ; energetic; feeling of fidgets; can-
not sleep from thinking. Headache; better eating. Eye-
balls feel sunken. Itching in eyes. Itching and smart-
ing in inner canthus of left eye.

Abdomen. — Sore; sharp sticking pain as if stool was
coming on; diarrleea, sharp pain in left iliac region
going over to right. Nausea increases with pains.

Female.— Sharp sticking pains in both ovarian
regions, left, better bending over, by lying on left side,
with legs flexed; nipples tender.

Respiratory. — Tickling, dry cough. Intense constric-
tion over sternum, with drawing feeling through to back
on lying down,

Skin. —- Itching blotches; burning, creeping sensation.
Profuse discharge from.granulating ulcers. Urticaria
with shuddering,

Sleep. —- Unrefreshed: sleepless. Wakes from 1 to 3
A.M. Hungry for apples. Eating does not help sleep.
Not fatigued from loss of sleep

Dose. — First to thirtieth potency.
APOCYNUM ANDROS. —APOCYNUM CANNABINUM 75

APOCYNUM ANDROSAE MIFOLIUM
(Dogbane)

The rheumatic symptoms of this remedy promise most
curative results. Its pains are of a wandering nature,
with much stiffness and drawing. Everything smells
and tastes like honey. Worms. Trembling and pros-
tration. Swollen sensations.

Extremities. ~- Pain in all joints. Pain in toes and
soles. Swelling of hands and feet. Profuse sweat, with
much heat in soles. Tingling pain in toes. Cramps in
soles. Violent heat in soles. [Sulph.j

Dose. -— Tincture and first potency.

APOCYNUM CANNABINUM
(Indian Hemp)

This 1s one of our most efficient remedies, in dropstes
and urinary troubles, especially suppression and stran-
gury. In the digestive complaints of Bright’s disease,
with the nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, difficult breath-
ing, it will be found of frequent service. The dropsy
is charactcrized by great thirst and gastric irritability.
Arhythmia. Mitral and tricuspid regurgitation. Acute
alcoholism,

Mind. — Bewildered. Low spirited,

Nose. — Long-continued sneezing. Snuffles of chil-
dren. [Sambucus.] Chronic nasal catarrh with ten-
dency to acute stuffiness with dull, sluggish memory.
Dull headache. Takes cold easily, nostrils become con-
gested and blocked up easily.
76 APOCYNUM CANNABINUM

Stomach. — Nausea, with drowsiness. Thirst on walk-
ing. Excessive vomiting. Food or water is immediately
ejected, Dull, heavy, sick feeling, Oppression in epi-
gastrium and chest, impeding breathing. Sensation of
sinking in stomach, Abdomen bloated. Ascites.

Stool. —IVatery, flatulent, with soreness in anus;
worse after eating.

Urine. — Bladder much distended, Turbid, hot urine,
with thick mucus and burning in urethra, after urinat-
ing. Little expulsive power. Dribbling. Strangury.

Female. — Amenorrhcoea, with bloating; metrorrhagia
with nausea; fainting, vital depression. Haemorrhages at
change of life.

Respiratory. — Short, dry cough. Respiration short
and unsatisfactory. Sighing. Oppression about epigas-
trium and chest.

Heart.— Tricuspid regurgitation; rapid and feeble
cardiac action, low arterial tension, pulsating jugulars,
genera! cyanosis and general dropsy.

Sleep. — Great restlessness and little sleep.

Modalities. — Worse, cold weather; cold drinks; un-
covering.

Relationship. — Cymarin is the active principle of
Apecyn., lowers pulse rate and increases Llood-pressure,
Strephanthus (extreme cardiac depression with intense
gastric disturbance; dropsy). ralia hispada (useful in
urinary disorders, especially with drupsy). Apis, Ar-
senic; Dimtai.; Hvileb,

Dose. -—~ Tincture (ten drops three times daily) and
in acute alcoholisin 1 dram of decoction in 4 oz. water.
APOMORPHIA — AQUILEGIA 77

APOMORPHIA

(Alkaloid from Decomposition of Morphine by
Hydrochloric Acid)

The chief power of this drug lies in the speedy and
effective vomiting that it produces, which becomes a
strong guiding symptom to its homceopathic use. Pneu-
monia with vomiting. Combined alcoholism, with
constant nausea, constipation, insomnia.

Head and Stomach. — Vertigo. Dilated pupils. Nau-
sca and vomiting, Violent inclination tc vomit Hot
feeling all over body, especially head. Empty retching
and headache; heartburn; pain between shoulder-blades.
Reflex vomiting — pregnancy. Seasickness.

Non-Homeeopathic Uses.— The hypodermic injec-
tion of one-sixteenth of a grain will cause full emesis
within five to fifteen minutes in an adult. Do not use
in opium pvisoning. Apomorph, hypodermically, one-
thirtieth grain or loss, acts as a safe and sure hypnotic.
Acts well even in delirium. Sleep comes on in half an
hour.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency.

AQUILEGIA
(Columbine)

A remedy for hysteria. Globus and clavus hystericus,
Women at climaxis, with vomiting of green substance,
espccialy, in the ‘morning. Sleeplessness. Nervous
trembling of body; sensitive to light and noise. Dys-
menorrheea of young girls.

Female. — Menses scanty, with dull, painful, nightly
increasing pressure in the right lumbar region,

Dose. — First potency.
78 ARAGALLUS LAMBERTI,— ARALIA RACEMOSA

ARAGALLUS LAMBERTI
(White Loco Weed — Rattle Weed)

Acts principally on nervous system, producing a be-
wildered, confused state, Symptoms of incoordination
and paralysis. Locomotor ataxia. Tired in the morn-
ing.

Mind. — Great depression; worse in mornjng or eve-
ning. Cannot study. Cross, irritable, restless. Bewild-
ered. Mental confusion and apathy. Desires to be alone.
Difficulty in concentrating mind, absent-minded. Lack of
ambition. Defective expression in writing. Restlessness
and aimless wandering, Must concentrate his mind on
walking,

Head, — Diplopia. Burning in eyes. Cracking of
lower lip.

Throat.— Aches. Feels full. Sore with nausea.
Pharynx dark, swollen, glazed.

Relationship. -- Compare: Asirayallus and Orytropis,
two varieties of Loco Weed; also Baryta.

Dose. — Sixth and two hundredth potencies.

ARALIA RACEMOSA
(American Spikenard)

‘This is a remedy for asthmatic conditions, with cough
aggravated on lying down. Extreme sensitiveness to
draughts. Diarrhoea, prolapse of rectum.

Respiratory. — Dry cough coming on after first sleep,
about middle of night. Asthma on lying down at night
with spasmodic cough; worse after first sleep, with
tickling in throat. Constriction of chest; feels as if a
foreign body were in throat. Obstruction worse in
spring. Hay-fever; frequent sneezing.
ARALIA RACEMOSA — ARANEA DIADEMA 79

The least current of air causes sncezing, with copious
watery, excoriating nasal discharge, of salty acrid taste.

Female. — Menses suppressed; leucorrhcea four-smell-
ing, acrid, with pressing-down pain. Lochia suppressed,
with tympanites.

Modalities. — Worse about 11 p.m. (cough).

Relationship. — Compare: Pecten—Scallop (humid
asthma. Quick, labored breathing. Constriction of chest,
especially right side, Asthma preceded by coryza and
burning in throat and chest. Attack ends with copious
expectoration of tough, frothy mucus. Worse at night.)
Ars. iod.; Naphthaline; Cepa; Rosa; Sabad.; Sinapfis.

Dose. -—— Tincture, to third potency.

ARANEA DIADEMA
(Papal-Cross Spider)

All spider poisons powerfully affect the nervous sys-
tem, (Sce tarentula, Mygale, etc.)

All symptoms of Aranea are characterized by pe-
riodicity, and coldness, and great susceptibility to damp-
ness. It is the remedy for the constitution favorable
to malarial poisoning, where every damp day or place
favors chilliness. Patient feels cold to the very bones.
Coldness not relieved by anything. Fecling as if parts
were enlarged and heavier, Wake up at night with
hands feeling twice their natural size. Spleen swollen.

Head. — Pain in right trifacial nerve from periphery
inwards. Confusion; Letter by smoking in open air.
Heat and flickering in eyes; worse in damp weather.
Sudden violent pain in teeth at night immediately after
lying down,
82 ARGEMONE—ARGENTUM METALLICUM

Extremities. — Left knee stiff and painful. Feet
swollen.

Modalities — ]Vorse at noon (weakness).

Dose. — Sixth potency. Fresh juice is applied to
ulcers and warts.

ARGENTUM METALLICUM
(Silver)

The chief action is centered qn the articulations and
their component elements, bones, cartilages, and liga-
ments, The larynx is also a special center for this
drug.

Mental.-——Ilurried feeling; time passes slowly;
melancholy,

Head. — Dull paroxysmal neuralgia over left side,
gradually increasing and ceasing suddenly. Scalp very
tender to touch. Vertigo, with intoxicated feeling, on
looking at running water. Head feels empiy, hollow,
Eyelids red and thick, Exhausting coryza, with sneez-
ing. Pain in facial bones,

Throat. -— Raw, hawking, gray, jelly-like mucus, and
throat sore on coughing. Profuse and easy morning
expectoration.

Respiratory. —- Hoarseness Aphonia. Total loss of
voice of professional singers. Larynx feels sore and
raw. Easy expectoration, looking like boiled starch.
Fecling of raw spot near supra sternal fossa. Worse
from use of voice, Cough from laughing. Hectic fever
at noon. On reading aloud, must hem and hawk. Great
weakness of chest; worse left side. Alteration in timbre
of voice

Back. --- Severe backache; must walk bent, with op-
pression of chest.

Urine. — Diuresis. Urine profuse, turbid, sweet odor.
Frequent urination. Polyuria.
82 ARGEMONE—ARGENTUM METALLICUM

Extremities. — Left knee stiff and painful. Feet
swollen.

Modalities — ]Vorse at noon (weakness).

Dose. — Sixth potency. Fresh juice is applied to
ulcers and warts.

ARGENTUM METALLICUM
(Silver)

The chief action is centered qn the articulations and
their component elements, bones, cartilages, and liga-
ments, The larynx is also a special center for this
drug.

Mental.-——Ilurried feeling; time passes slowly;
melancholy,

Head. — Dull paroxysmal neuralgia over left side,
gradually increasing and ceasing suddenly. Scalp very
tender to touch. Vertigo, with intoxicated feeling, on
looking at running water. Head feels empiy, hollow,
Eyelids red and thick, Exhausting coryza, with sneez-
ing. Pain in facial bones,

Throat. -— Raw, hawking, gray, jelly-like mucus, and
throat sore on coughing. Profuse and easy morning
expectoration.

Respiratory. —- Hoarseness Aphonia. Total loss of
voice of professional singers. Larynx feels sore and
raw. Easy expectoration, looking like boiled starch.
Fecling of raw spot near supra sternal fossa. Worse
from use of voice, Cough from laughing. Hectic fever
at noon. On reading aloud, must hem and hawk. Great
weakness of chest; worse left side. Alteration in timbre
of voice

Back. --- Severe backache; must walk bent, with op-
pression of chest.

Urine. — Diuresis. Urine profuse, turbid, sweet odor.
Frequent urination. Polyuria.
ARGENTUM METALLICUM — ARGENTUM NITRICUM 8

Extremities. — Rheumatic affections of joints, espe- ,
cially elbow, and knee, Legs weak and trembling. In-
voluntary contractions of fingers, partial paralysis of
forearm; writer's cramp. Swelling of ankles.

Male. — Crushed pain in testicles. Seminal emissions,
without sexual excitement,

Female. — Ovaries feel too large. Bearing-down pain.
Prolapse of womb. Eroded spongy cervix. Leucorrhea,
foul, excoriating. Palliative in scirrhus of uterus. Pain
in left ovary, Climactteric haemorrhage. Sore feeling
throughout abdomen; worse by jarring.

Modalities — Worse from touch, teward noon, Better
in open air; cough at night when lying down (opposite
Hyoscy.).

Relationship. —- Antidotes: Mercur.; Puls,

Compare: Selen.; Alum.; Platina; Stannum; Am-
pelopsis, (Chronic hoarseness in scrofulous patients.)

Dose, — Third to sixth tricuration.,

ARGENTUM NITRICUM
(Nitrate of Silver)

In this drug the neurotic effects are very marked,
many brain and spinal symptoms presenting themselves
which give certain indications for its homeopathic em-
ployment. Symptoms of inco-ordination, loss of control
and want of balance everywhere, mentally and physi-
cally; trembling in affected parts. It produces violent
inflammation of the throat, and a marked gastro-enteritis.
Very characteristic is the great desire for sweets, the
splinter-like pains, and free muco-purulent discharge in
the inflamed and ulcerated mucous membranes. Sensa-
tion as if a part were expanding and other errors of
perception are characteristic. Withered -up and dried
constitutions preseul a favorable field for its action.
84 ARGENTUM NITRICUM

Pains increase and decrease gradually. Flatulent state
and permaturely aged look. Explosive belching, espe-
cially in neurotics, Upper abdominal affections~brought
on by undue mental exertion.

Mind. — Thinks his understanding will and must fail.
Fearful and nervous; impulse to jump out of window.
Faintish and tremulous. Melancholic; apprehensive of
serious disease, TZime passcs slowly. [Cann ind.]
Memory weak. Errors of perception. Jimpulsive; wants
to do things ina hurry, [Lilium] Peculiar mental im-
pulses. .

Head.— Headache with coldness and trembling.
Emotional disturbances cause appearance of hemi-
cranial attacks. Sense of expansion. Brain-fag, with
general debility and trembling. Headache from men-
tal exertion, from dancing. Vertigo, with buzzing in
ears. Aching in frontal eminence, with enlarged fcel-
ing in corresponding eye. Boring pain: hetter on tight
bandaging and pressure. Itching of scalp. Hemi-
crania; bones of head feel as if separated. Diseases
from unusual or long-continued mental exertion.

Eyes. -—Inner canthi swollen and red. Spots before
the vision. Blurred vision. Photophobia in warm room.
Purulent ophthalmia, Great swelling of conjunctiva;
discharge abundant and purulent. Chronic ulceration
of margin of lids; sore, thick, swollen. Unable to keep
eyes fixed steadily. Eye-strain from sewing; worse in
warm room, [Nat. mur.]  Paretic condition of ciliary
muscle. Acute granular conjunctivitis. Cornea opaque.
Ulcer in cornea,

Nose. — Loss of smell. Itching. Ulcers in septum.
Coryza, with chilliness, lachrymation, and headache.

; Face. — Sunken, old, pale, and bluish. Old man’s
look; tight drawing of skin over bones,
ARGENTUM NITRICUM 85

Mouth. — Gums tender and bleed easily. Tongue has
prominent papilla; tip is red and painful. Pain in
sound teeth. Taste coppery, like ink.

Throat.— Much thick mucus in throat and mouth
causes hawking. Raw, rough and sore. Sensation of
a splinter in throat on swallowing. Dark redness of
throat. Catarrh of smokers, with tickling as of hair in
throat. Stranyulated feeling.

Stomach. —- Belching accompanies most gastric ail-
ments. Nausea, retching, vomiting of glairy mucus.
Flatulence; painful swelling of pit. Gnawing ulcerat-
ing pain; burning and constriction. Ineffectual effort
at eructation. Great craving for swects. Gastritis of
drunkards. Ulcerative pain in left side under ribs.
Trembling and throbbing in stomach, Enormous dis-
tention, Ulceration of stomach, with radiating pain.
Desire for cheese.

Abdomen. — Colic, with flatulent distention Stitchy
ulcerative pain on left side cf stomach, below short ribs.

Stool. — Watery, noisy, flatulent; green, like chopped
spinach, with shreddy mucus and enormous distention
of abdomen; very offensive. Diarrhoea immediately after
eating or drinking. Fluids go right through him; after
sweets, After any emotion with flatulence, ‘Itching of
anus.

Urine. — Urine passes .unconsciously, day and night.
Urethra inflamed, with pain, burning, itching; pain as
from a splinter, Urine scanty and dark. Emission of a
few drops after having finished. Divided stream. Early
stage of gonorrhoea; profuse discharge and terrible
cutting pains; bloody urine.

Male.— Impotence. Erection fails when coition is
attempted. Cancer-like ulcers. Desire wanting. Geni-
tals shrivel. Coition painful.
86 ARGENTUM NITRICUM

Female. — Gastialgia at beginning of menses. Intense
spasm of chest muscles. Orgasms at night. Nervous
erethism at change of life. Leucorrhaea profuse, with
erosion of cervix; bleeding easily. Uterine haemorrhage,
two weeks after menses.

Respiratory.— High notes cause cough. Chronic
hoarseness. Suffocative cough, as if from a hair in
throat. Dyspncea. Chest feels as if a bar were around
it. Palpitation, pulse irregular and intermittent; worse
lying on right side. [Alumen.] Painful spots in chest.
Many people in a room seem to take away his breath.

Back. — Much pain. Spine sensitive with nocturnal
pains, [Oval. acid.) paraplegia; posterior spinal
sclerosis.

Extremities. — Cannot walk with eyes closed. Trem-
bling, with general debility. Paralysis, with mental and
abdominal symptoms. Rigidity of calves. Debility in
calves especially. Walks and stands unsteadily, espe-
cially when unobserved.

Skin. —- Brown, tense, and hard. Drawing in skin, as
from a spider-web, or dried albuminous substance, with-
ered and dried up.

Sleep. — Sleepless, from fancies before his imagina-
tion; horrible dreams of snakes, and of sexual gratifica-
tion. Drowsy stupor.

Fever. — Chills with nausea. Chilly when uncovered,
yet feels smothered if wrapped -up.

Modalities. — IV’orse, warmth in any form; at night;
from cold food; sweets; after eating; at menstrual
period; from emotions, left side. Better, from eructa-
tion; fresh air; cold; pressure.

Relationship. — Antidote: Nat. mur.

Compare: drs.: Merc.; Fhos.; Pulsat.; Argent. cya-
natum (angina pectoris, asthma, spasin of cesophagus) ;
Argent, todat. (throat disorders, hoarseness, gland af-
ARGENTUM NITRICUM—ARNICA 87

fected). Protargol (gonorrhcea after acute stage 2 per
cent. solution; syphilitic mucous patches, chancres and
chancroids, 10 per cent. solution applied twice a day;
ophthalmia neonatorum, 2 drops of 10 per cent. solu-
tion).

Aristolochia Serpentaria. (Symptoms of intestinal
tract; colliquative diarrhoea, meteorism. Flatulent dys-
pepsia. Brain congestion. Distention and cutting pains
in abdomen.) Symptoms like those of Poison-Oak and
proved in fluid extract an excellent remedy for this.

Argent. phosph. (An excellent diuretic in dropsy.)

Argent. oxyd. (Chlorosis with menorrhagia and diar-
rheea.)

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

Solution in water preferable to lower triturations;
unless fresh, these readily decompose into the oxide.

ARNICA
(Leopard’s Bane)

Produces conditions upon the system quite similar
to those resulting from injuries, falls, blows, contusions.
Tinnitus aurium. Putrid phenomena. Septic conditions ;
prophylactic of pus infection.

It is especially suited to cases when any injury, how-
ever remcte, seems to have caused the present trouble.
After traumatic injuries, overuse of any organ, strains.
Arnica is disposed to cerebral congestion. Acts best in
plethoric, feebly in debilitated with impoverished blood,
cardiac dropsy with dyspnoea. A muscular tonic. Trau-
matism of grief, remorse or sudden realization of finan-
cial loss. Limbs and body ache as if beaten; joints as
if sprained. Bed feels too hard. Marked effect on the
blood. Relaxed blood vessels, black and blue spots.
Tendency to hemorrhage and low-fever states, Ten-
88 ARNICA

dency to tissue degeneration, septic conditions, abscesses
that do not mature. Sorc, lame, bruised feeling. Neu-
ralgias originating in disturbances of pneumo-gastric.
Rheumatism of muscular and tendinous tissue, espe-
cially of back and shoulders. Aversion to tobacco.
Influenca,

Mind. — Fears touch, or the approach of anyone. Un-
conscious; when spoken to answers correctly, but re-
lapses. Indifference; inability to perform continuous
active work; morose, delirious. Nervous; cannot bear
pain; whole body oversensitive. Says there is nothing
the matter with him. Wants to be let alone. Agora-
phobia (fear of space). After mental strain or shock.

Head. — /Jot, with cold body; confused; sensitiveness
of brain, with sharp, pinching pains. Scalp feels con-
tracted. Cold spot on forehead.

Eyes.— Diplopia from traumatism, muscular paraly-
sis, retinal haemorrhage. Bruised, sore feeling in eyes
after close work. Must keep eyes open. Dizzy on clos-
ing them, Feel tired and weary after sight-seeing, mov-
ing pictures, etc.

Ears. — Noises in ear caused by rush of blood to the
head. Shooting in and around ears, Blood from ears.
Dullness of hearing after concussion. Pain in cartilages
of ears as if bruised.

Nose. — Bleeding after every fit of coughing, dark
fluid blood. Nose feels sore; cold.

Mouth. -- /‘vtid breath. Dry and thirsty. Bitter ‘taste.
[Colocy.] Taste as from bad eggs. Soreness of gums
after teeth extraction. [Scpia.] Empyema of maxillary
sinus.

Face. — Sunken; very red. Heat in lips. Herpes in
face,

Stomach. -- Longing for vinegar. Distaste for milk
and meat. Vomiting of blood. Pain in stomach during
ARNICA 89

eating. Repletion with loathing. Oppressive gases pass
upward and downward. Pressure as from a stone.
Fecling as if stomach were passing against spine. Fetid
vomiting.

Abdomen. — Stitches under false ribs. Distended ; of-
fensive flatus. Sharp thrusts through abdomen.

Rectum. — Straining of tenesmus in diarrhea.

Stool. — Offensive, brown, bloody, putrid, involuntary.
Looks like brown yeast. Must lie down after every
stool. Diarrhea of consumption; worse lying on left
side,

Urine. — Retained from over-exertion. Dark brick-
red sediment. :

Female. — Bruised parts after labor. Violent after-
pains. Uterine hemorrhage from mechanical injury
after coition. Sore nipples. Mastitis from injury.
Feeling as if foetus were lying crosswise.

Respiratory. — Coughs depending on cardiac lesion,
paroxysmal, at night, during sleep, worse exercise.
Angina pectoris; pain especially severe in elbow of left
arm. Hoarseness from overuse of voice. Raw, sore
feeling in morning. Cough produced by weeping and
lamenting. Dry, from tickling low down in trachea.
Bloody expectoration. Dyspncea with hemoptysis. All
bones and cartilages of chest painful. Stitches in heart.
Pulse feeble and irregular. Violent spasmodic cough,
with facial herpes. Whooping cough, child cries before
coughing. Pleurodynia, [Ranunc.; Cimicif.}

Extremities. — Gout. Great fear of beig touched or
approached. Pain in back and limbs, as if bruised or
beaten. Sprained and dislocated feeling. Soreness
after overexertion. Everything on which he lies seems
too hard. Deathly coldness of forearm. Cannot walk
90 ARNICA—ARSENICUM ALBUM

erect, on account of bruised pain in pelvic region.
Rheumatism begins Jow down and _ works up.
[Ledum.]

Skin. — Black and blue. Itching, burning, eruption of
small pimples. Crops of small boils. Ichthyol; Silica.]
Ecchymosis. Bed sores. [Bovinine locally.] Acne indu-
rata, characterized by symmetry in distribution.

Sleep. — Comatose drowsiness; awakens with hot
head; dreams of death, mutilated bodies, anxious and
terrible. Ilorrors in the night. Involuntary stools dur-
ing sleep.

Fever. — Shivering over whole body. Heat and red-
ness of head, with coolness of rest of body. Internal
heat; feet and hands cold. Nightly sour sweats.

Modalities. — Horse, least touch; motion; rest; wine;
damp cold. Better, lying down, or with head low.

Relationship.—Antidotes: Camph.

Complementary: -lcou.; Tpec.

Compare: Argostis (externally after injuries) ; Acon.;
Bapt.; Bellis; Haman.; Rhus.

Dose. — First to twelfth potency. Locally, the tinc-
ture, but should never be applied hot or at all when

sabrasions or cuts are present.

ARSENICUM ALBUM
(Arsenious Acid)

A profoundly acting remedy on every organ and tis-
sue. Its clear-cut characteristic symptoms and corre-
spondence to many severe types of disease make its
homeopathic eniployment constant and certain. Its
general symptoms often alone lead to its successful ap-
‘plication, Among these the all-prevailing debility, ex-
ARSENICUM ALBUM 91

haustion, and restlessness, with nightly aggravation, are
most important. Great erhaustion after the slightest
exertion. This, with the peculiar irritability of fiber,
gives the characteristic irritable weakness. Burning
pains. Unquenchable thirst. Scaside complaints [Nat.
mur.; Aqua Marina]. Injurious effects of fruits, espe-
cially more watery ones. Gives quiet and ease to the
last moments of life when given in high potency. Fear
fright and worry, Green discharges.

Ars. should be thought of in ailments from alcohol-
ism, ptomaine poisoning, stings, dissecting wounds,
chewing tobacco; ill effects from decayed food or ani-
mal matter; odor of discharges is putrid; in complaints
that return annually. Anzmia and chlorosis. Degener-
ative changes. Gradual loss of weight from impaired
nutrition. Malarial cachexia. Scptic infections and low
vitality.

Mind.— Great anguish and restlessness. Changes
place continually. Fears, of death, of being left alone.
Great fear, with cold sweat. Thinks it useless to take
medicine. Suicidal. Hallucinations of smell and sight.
Despair drives him from place to place. Miserly, ma-
licious, selfish, lacks courage. General sensibility in-
creased [Hep.]

Head. — Headaches relieved by cold, other symptoms
worse. Periodical burning pains, with restlessness;
with cold skin. Hemicrania, with icy feeling of scalp
and great weakness. Sensitive head in open air. De-
lirium tremens; cursing and raving; vicious. Head is
in constant motion. Scalp itches intolerably; circular
patches of bare spots; rough, dirty, sensitive, and cov-
ered with dry scales; nightly burning and itching;
dandruff. Scalp very sensitive; cannot brush hair.

Eyes.— Burning in eyes, with acrid lachrymation.
Lids red, ulcerated, scabby, scaly, granulated. CEdema
92 ARSENICUM ALBUM

around eyes. External inflammation, with extreme
painfulness; burning, hot, and excoriating lachrymation.
Corneal ulceration. Intense photophobia; better ex-
ternal warmth. Ciliary neuralgia, with fine burning
pain.

Ears. — Skin within, raw and burning. Thin, ex-
coriating, offensive otorrhcea. Roaring in ears, during
a paroxysm of pain.

Nose. — Thin, watery, excoriating discharge. Nose
feels stopped up. Sneezing without relief. Hay-fever
and coryza; worse in open air; better indoors. Burn-
ing and bleeding. Acne of nose. Lupus.

Face. — Swollen, pale, yellow, cachectic, sunken, cold,
and covered with sweat. [Acetic acid.] Expression of
agony. Tearing, mecdl-like pains; burning. Lips
black, livid. Angry, circumscribed flush of cheeks.

Mouth. — Unhealthy, casily-bleeding gums. Ulcera-
tion of mouth with dryness and burning heat. Tongue
dry, clean, and red; stitching and burning pain in
tongue. Bloody saliva. Neuralgia of teeth; fee! long
and very sore; worse after midnight; better warmth.
Metallic taste. Gulping up of burning water.

Throat. — Swollen, cedematous, constricted, burning,
unable to swallow. Diphtheritic membrane, looks dry
and wrinkled.

Stomach. -- Cannot bear the sight or smell of food.
Great thirst; drinks much, but little at a time. Nausea,
retching, vomiting, after eating or drinking. Anxiety
in pit of stomach. Burning pain. Craves acids and
coffee. Heartburn; gulpiug up of acid and bitter sub-
stances which seem to excoriate the throat. Long-
lasting eructations. Vomiting of blood, bile, green
,apucus, or brown-black mixed with blood. Stomach
‘extremely irritable; seems raw, as if torn, Gastralgia
92 ARSENICUM ALBUM

around eyes. External inflammation, with extreme
painfulness; burning, hot, and excoriating lachrymation.
Corneal ulceration. Intense photophobia; better ex-
ternal warmth. Ciliary neuralgia, with fine burning
pain.

Ears. — Skin within, raw and burning. Thin, ex-
coriating, offensive otorrhcea. Roaring in ears, during
a paroxysm of pain.

Nose. — Thin, watery, excoriating discharge. Nose
feels stopped up. Sneezing without relief. Hay-fever
and coryza; worse in open air; better indoors. Burn-
ing and bleeding. Acne of nose. Lupus.

Face. — Swollen, pale, yellow, cachectic, sunken, cold,
and covered with sweat. [Acetic acid.] Expression of
agony. Tearing, mecdl-like pains; burning. Lips
black, livid. Angry, circumscribed flush of cheeks.

Mouth. — Unhealthy, casily-bleeding gums. Ulcera-
tion of mouth with dryness and burning heat. Tongue
dry, clean, and red; stitching and burning pain in
tongue. Bloody saliva. Neuralgia of teeth; fee! long
and very sore; worse after midnight; better warmth.
Metallic taste. Gulping up of burning water.

Throat. — Swollen, cedematous, constricted, burning,
unable to swallow. Diphtheritic membrane, looks dry
and wrinkled.

Stomach. -- Cannot bear the sight or smell of food.
Great thirst; drinks much, but little at a time. Nausea,
retching, vomiting, after eating or drinking. Anxiety
in pit of stomach. Burning pain. Craves acids and
coffee. Heartburn; gulpiug up of acid and bitter sub-
stances which seem to excoriate the throat. Long-
lasting eructations. Vomiting of blood, bile, green
,apucus, or brown-black mixed with blood. Stomach
‘extremely irritable; seems raw, as if torn, Gastralgia
ARSENICUM ALBUM 93

from slighest food or drink. Dyspepsia from vinegar,
acids, ice-cream, ice-water, tobacco. Terrible fear and
dyspnea, with gastralgia; also faintness, icy coldness,
great exhaustion. Malignant symptoms. Everything
swallowed seems to lodge in the cesophagus, which
seems as if closed and nothing would pass. III effects
of vegetable dict, melons, and watery fruits generally.
Craves milk,

Abdomen. — Gnawing, burning pains like coals of
fire; relieved by heat. Liver and spleen enlarged and
painful, Ascites and anasarca. Abdomen swollen and
painful. Pain as from a wound in abdomen on
coughing.

Rectum. — Painful, spasmodic protrusion of rectum.
Tenesmus. Burning pain and pressure in rectum and
anus.

Stool. — Smali, offensive, dark, with much prostra-
tion, Worse at night, and a/ter eating and drinking;
_from chilling stomach, alcoholic abuse, spoiled meat.
Dysentery dark, bloody, very offensive. Cholera, with
intense agony, prostration, and burning thirst. Body
cold as ice. [Verat.] Hemorrhoids burn like fire; re-
lieved by heat. Skin excoriated about anus.

Urine. — Scanty, burning, involuntary. Bladder as if
paralyzed. Albuminous. Epithelial cells; cylindrica!
clots of fibrin and globules of pus and blood. After
urinating, feeling of weakness in abdomen. Bright’s
disease. Diabetes. .

Female.— Menses too profuse and too soon. Burn-
ing in ovarian region. Leucorihcea, acrid, burning, of-
fensive, thin. Pain as from red-hot wires; worse least
exertion; causes great fatigue; better in warm room.
Menorrhagia.

Respiratory. — Unable to lie down; fears suffocation.
94 ARSENICUM ALBUM

Air-passages constricted. Asthma worse midnight.
Burning in chest. Suffocative catarrh, Cough worse
after midnight; worse lying on back. Expectoration
scanty, frothy. Darting pain through upper third of
right lung. Wheezing respiration. Hzemoptysis with
pain between shoulders; burning heat all over. Cough
dry, as from sulphur fumes; after drinking.

Heart. — Palpitation, pain, dyspnoea, faintness. Ir-
ritable heart in smokers and tobacco-chewers. Pulse
more rapid in morning. [Sulph.] Dilatation. Cyanosis.
Fatty degeneration. Angina pectoris, with pain in neck
and occiput.

Back. — Weakness in small of back. Drawing in of
shoulders. Pain and burning in back. [O-al. ac.]

Extremities. — Trembling, twitching, spasms, weak-
ness, heaviness, uneasiness, Cramps in calves. Swell-
ing of feet. Sciatica. Burning pains. Peripheral neu-
ritis. Diabetic gangrene.

Skin. — Itching, burning, swellings; cedema, erup-
tion, papular, dry, rough, scaly; worse cold and scratch-
ing. Malignant pustules. Ulcers with offensive dis-
charge. Anthrax. Poisoned wounds. Urticaria, with
burning and restlessness. Psortusis, Scirrhus. Icy
coldness of body. Epithelioma. [Nat. cacodyl.]

Sleep. — Disturbed, anxious, restless. Suffocative fits
during sleep. Sleeps with hands over head. Dreams
are full of care and fear. Drowsy, sleeping sickness.

Fever. — High temperature. Periodicity marked with
adynamia, Septic fevers. Intermittent. Paroxysms
incomplete, with marked exhaustion. Hay-fever. Coid
sweats. Typhoid, not too early; often after Rhus.
Complete exhaustion. Delirium; worse after midnigt-t.
Great restlessness. Great heat about 3 a, m. Sordes.
ARSENICUM ALBUM — ARSENICUM BROMATUM 95

Modalities. — }Vorse, wet weather, after midnight;
from cold, cold drinks, or food. Right side. Better
from heat; from head elevated; warm drinks.

Complementary: Rhus; Carbo; Phos.; Thuja; All.
sat. Antidotal to lead poison,

Antidotes: Opium; Carbo; China; Hepar; Nur.
Chemical Antidotes: Charcoal; Hydrated Peroxide of
lron; Litne Water.

Compare: Cenchris contortrix; lod.; Phosph.; China;
Verat, alb.; Carbo; Kali phos. Epilobium (intractable
Uiarrhoea of typhoid). Hoang Nan.— Strychnos Gaul-
theriana (Exhaustion with vertigo, numbness and tin-
gling in hands and feet; involuntary action of lower jaw.
Pustules and boils, tertiary syphilis and cancer of
glandular structures). Atoxyl. — Sodium arsanilate 3x,
sleeping sickness; commencing optic atrophy. « Levico
Water — (containing Ars., Iron and Copper). (Chronic
and dyscratic skin diseases, chorea minor and spasms
in scrofulous and anemic children.) Sarcolactic acid
(influenza with violent vomiting).

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency. The very highest
potencies have often yielded brilliant results.

Low attenuations in gastric, intestinal, and kidney
diseases; higher in neuralgias, nervous diseases, and
skin. But if only surface conditions call for it, give
the lowest potencies, 2x to 3x trit.

ARSENICUM BROMATUM
(Bromide of Arsenic)

Has proven a great anti-psoric and anti-syphilitic
remedy. Herpetic eruptions, syphilitic excrescences,
glandular tumors and indurations, carcinoma, locomotor
ataxia, and obstinate intermittents, and diabetes are
all greatly influenced by this preparation.
96 ARSEN. BRO.—-ARSEN. HYDROG.—ARSEN. IODATUM

Face. — 4cne rosacea, with violet papules on nose;
worse in the spring.

Dose. — Tincture, two to four drops daily in water.
In diabetes, three drops three times a day in a glass o:
water.

ARSENICUM HYDROGENISATUM
(Arseniuretted Hydrogen)

The general action of Arsenic more accentuated.
Anemia. Anxiety; despair. Hamaturia, with general
blood disorganization. Hemorrhages from mucous
membranes. Urine suppressed, followed by vomiting.
Prepuce and glans covered with pustules and round
superficial ulcers. Collapse. Coldness; prostration.
Sudden weakness and nausea. Skin becomes dark
brown.

Head.— Violent vertigo on going upstairs. Eyes
sunken; broad, blue circies around. Violent sneezing.
Nose cold. Must be wrapped up with warm cloths.

Mouth, — Tongue enlarged; deep, irregular ulcer:
modular swelling. Mouth hot and dry; little thirst.

Dose. — Third potency,

ARSENICUM IODATUM
(Iodide of Arsenic)

Is to be preferred for persistently irritating, cor-
rosive discharges. The discharge irritates the mem-
brane frem which it flows and over which it flows. The
discharge may be fetid, watery, and the mucous mem-
brane is always red, angry, swollen: itches and burns.
Anfluenza, hay-fever, old nasal catarrhs, and catarrh of
_ middle ear, Swelling of tissues within the nose.
‘Mypertrophied condition of eustachian tube and deaf-
ness. Senile heart, myocarditis and fatty degeneration.
Pufse shotty. Chronic aortitis.
ARSENICUM IODATUM 97

It seems probable that in Arsenic iod.. we have a
remedy most closely allied to manifestations of tuber-
culosis. It will be indicated by a profound prostration,
rapid, irritable pulse, recurring fever and sweats, emacia-
tion; tendency to diarrhoea. Chronic pneumonia, with
abscess in lung. Hectic; debility; night sweats.

This remedy is also to be remembered in phthisis
with hoarse, racking cough and profuse expectoration
of a purulent nature, and attended with cardiac weak-
ness, emaciation and general debility ; in chronic,
watery diarrhcea in phthisical subjects; in cases of
emaciation with good appetite; in amenorrhea, with
anemic palpitation and dyspnoea. In chronic pneu-
monia, when abscess is about to form. Great emacia-
tion. ‘Threatened pywmia. [Pyrog.; Methyl. blue.]

Head. —Jertiyo, with tremulous feeling, especially
in aged.

Nose. — Thin, watcry, irritating, excoriating discharge
from unterior and postcrior nares; sneesing. Hay-
fever. [Pollanin.] Chronic nasal catarrh; swollen
nose; profuse, thick, yellow discharge; ulcers; mcem-
brane sore and excoriated. Aggravation by sneezing.

Throat.— Burning in pharynx. Tonsils swollen.
Thick membrane from fauces to lips. Breath fetid,
glandular involvement. Diphtheria.

Eyes and Ears. — Scrofulous ophthalmia. Otitis, with
fetid, corrosive discharge. Tickening of tympanum.
Burning, acrid coryza.

Stomach.— Pain and pyrosis. Vomiting an hour
after food. Nausea distressing. Pain in epigastrium
Intense thirst; water is immediately ejectcd.

Respiratory — Slight hacking cough, with dry and
stopped-up nostrils. Pneumonia that fails to clear up.
Broncho-pneumonia after grippe. Aphonia.
98 ARSEN. 10D.—ARSEN. MET.

Fever.— Recurrent fever and sweats. Drenching
night-sweats. Pulse rapid, feeble, weak, irregular.
Chilly, cannot endure ‘cold.

Skin. — Dry, scaly, itching. Murked exfoliation of
gkin in large scales, leaving a raw exuding surface be-
neath. IJchthyosis. Enlarged  scrofulous glands,
Venereal bubo. Debilitating night-sweats. Eczema of
the beard; watery, oozing, itching; worse, washing.
Emaciation. Psoriasis.

Relationship. —— Compare: Tuberculinum,; Antimon.
iod. In hay-fever, compare: Aralia; Naphthalin; Rosa;
Sang. nit.

Dose, — Second and third trituration.

ARSENICUM METALLICUM
(Metallic Arsenic)

Arouses latent syphilis. Periodically very marked;
symptoms recur every two and three weeks. Weak-
ness. Swollen feeling of parts.

Head. — Low spirited, memory weak. Desire to be
alone. Annoyed by visions, causing her to cry. Head
feels too large. Left-sided headache up to eyes and
into ears. Headache worse stooping and lying down.
QGEdematous swelling of forehead.

Face.— Red, itching, burning and bloated. Eyes
swelled and watery, burn with coryza. Eyes weak, day
and gas light unpleasant.

Mouth. -- The tongue coated white, and shows im-
print of the teeth. Mouth sore and ulcerated.

Abdomen. — Sore pain in liver goes through to shoul-
ders and spine. Pain in spleen down to groin. Pain
in breast extends to hip and spleen. Diarrhcea, burning
watery stools with relief of pain.

Dose. — Sixth potency.
ARSEN. SUL. FLAV.—ARTEM, VUL. 99

ARSENICUM SULFURATUM FLAVUM
(Yellow Sulphuret of Arsenic. Orpiment)

Difficult respiration. Skin chafed about genitals.

Leucoderma and squamous syphilides. Sciatica and
pain around the knee,

Relationship, — Compare: Ars.; Sulph. rub. (in-
fluenza with intense catarrhal symptoms, great pros-
tration and high temperature, purulent discharges,
psoriasis, acne, and sciatica. Chilly even before a fire.
Itching in various parts.)

Dose. — Third trituration.

ARTEMISIA VULGARIS
(Mugwort)

Has some reputation as a remedy for epileptic con-
ditions, and convulsive diseases of childhood and girls
at puberty. Locally and internally is injurious to eyes.
Pctit mal. Epilepsy without aura; after fright and
other violent emotions and after masturbation. Sev-
eral convulsions close together, Somnambulism. Gets
up at night and works, remembers nothing in the morn-
ing. [Kali phos.]

Head. — Drawn back by spasmodic twitchings. Mouth
drawn to left. Congestion of brain.

Eyes. — Colored light produces dizziness. Pain and
blurring of vision; better, rubbing; worse, using eyes.

Female. — Profuse menses. Violent uterine contrac-
tions. Spasms during menses.

Fever. — Profuse sweat, smelling like garlic.

Relationship. — Compare: Absinth.; Cina; Cicuta,

Dose, —- First to third potency. Said to act better
when given with wine.
100 ARUM DRACONTIUM—ARUM TRIPHYLLUM

ARUM DRACONTIUM
(Green Dragon)

Head. — Heavy; shooting pain in ears, aching pair
behind right ear.

Throat.— Dry, sore, worse swallowing. Raw and
tender. Continued disposition to clear throat. Croupy,
hoarse cough with sore throat.

Urinary. — Irresistible desire to pass urine, burns and
smarts,

Respiratory. —I]oarseness; excess of mucus in
larynx. Asthmatic at night. Expectoration thick,
heavy.

Dose. — First potency.

ARUM TRIPHYLLUM
(Jack-in-the-Pulpit)

Arum maculatum, Italicum, Dracontium, have the
same action as the Triphyllum. They all contain an ir-
ritant poison, causing inflammation of mucous surfaces
and destruction of tissue. Acridity is the keynote of
the kind of action characteristic of Arum.

Head.— Bores head in pillow. Headache from tos
warm clothing, from hot coffee.

Eyes. — Quivering of upper eyelids, especially left.

Nose. — Soreness of nostrils. Acrid, excoriating dis-
charge, producing raw sores. Nose obstructed; must
breathe through mouth. Boring in the nose. Coryza:
discharge blood-streaked, watery. Nose complctely
stopped, with fluent, acrid discharge. Hay-fever, with
pain over root of nose. Large scabs high up on right
side of nose. Face feels chapped, as if from cold wind;
feels hot. Constunt picking at nose until it bleeds.

‘Mouth. — Raw feeling at roof and palate. Lips and
soft palate sore and burning. Lips chapped and burn-
ARUM TRIPHYLLUM—ARUNDO 101

ing. Corners of mouth sore and cracked. Tongue red,
sore; whole mouth raw. Picking lips until they bleed.
Saliva profuse, acrid, corroding.

Throat. — Swelling of sub-maxillary glands. Con-
stricted and swollen; burns; raw. Constant hawking.
Hoarseness. Expectoration of much mucus. Lungs
feel sore. Clergyman’s sore throat. Voice uncertain,
uncontrollable Werse, talking, singing.

Skin. —- Scarlet rash; raw, bloody surfuccs any-
where.

Modalities. — Ii’orse, northwest wind, lying down,

Relationship. — Compare: Ammon, carb.: Ailanihus ;
Cepa,

Antidotes: Buttermilk; Aect. ac.: Puls,

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

ARUNDO
(Reed)

A remedy for catarrhal states. Hay-fever.

Head. — Itching; falling off of hair; roots of hair
painful. Pustules. Pair in occiput, extends to right
ciliary region. Deep seated pain in sides of head.

Ears. — Burning and itching in auditory canals. Ec-
zema behind ears.

Nose, — Hay-fever begins with burning and itching
of palate and conjunctiva, Annoying itching in the
nostrils and roof of the mouth. [IV yethia.] Coryza;
loss of smell. [Nat mur.] Sneezing, itching of nos-
trils.

‘ Mouth.— Burning and itching; bleeding of gums.
Ulcers and exfoliations in the commissures. Fissures
in tongue.

Stomach. — Coldness in stomach. Longing for acids.
[Antim.; Ars.; China; Phos.]
102 ARUNDO — ASAFCETIDA

Abdomen. -- Movement as from something alive.
Flatulence, pain at pubic region.

Stool.— Greenish. Burning at anus. Diarrhea of
nursing children. [Cham.; Calc. phos.)

Urine. — Burning. Red sediment. [Lyc.]

Male. — Pain in spermatic cord after embrace.

Female. — Menses too early and profuse. Neuralgic
pains from face to shoulders and pubis. Desire with
vaginal pruritus.

Respiratory. — Dyspneea; cough; bluish expectora-
tion. Burning and pain in nipples.

Extremities. — Itching, burning; edema of hands and
feet. Burning and swelling of soles. Copious and of-
fensive sweat of feet.

Skin. — Eczema; itching and crawling, especially of
chest, upper extremities. Fuissures in fingers and heels.

Relationship. — Compare: Anthoxantum -— sweet ver-
nal grass (a popular medicine for hay-fever and coryza).
Lolium; Cepa,; Sabad.; Silica.

Dose. -- Third to sixth potency.

ASAFOETIDA
(Gum of the Stinkasand)

The flatulence and spasmodic contraction of stomach
and cesophagus with reverse peristalsis are the most
marked symptoms. In its selection, its relation to the
hysterical and hypochondriacal patients, must be borne
in mind. Besides these superficial] symptoms, it has
been found to affect favorably deep ulcerations, caries
of bones, especially in the syphilitic organism; here, the
extreme sensitiveness and terrible throbbing, nightly
pains, guiding to its use.

Head. — Irritable; complains of her troubles; sensi-
tive. Boring above eyebrows. Pressive pain from
within outward,
102 ARUNDO — ASAFCETIDA

Abdomen. -- Movement as from something alive.
Flatulence, pain at pubic region.

Stool.— Greenish. Burning at anus. Diarrhea of
nursing children. [Cham.; Calc. phos.)

Urine. — Burning. Red sediment. [Lyc.]

Male. — Pain in spermatic cord after embrace.

Female. — Menses too early and profuse. Neuralgic
pains from face to shoulders and pubis. Desire with
vaginal pruritus.

Respiratory. — Dyspneea; cough; bluish expectora-
tion. Burning and pain in nipples.

Extremities. — Itching, burning; edema of hands and
feet. Burning and swelling of soles. Copious and of-
fensive sweat of feet.

Skin. — Eczema; itching and crawling, especially of
chest, upper extremities. Fuissures in fingers and heels.

Relationship. — Compare: Anthoxantum -— sweet ver-
nal grass (a popular medicine for hay-fever and coryza).
Lolium; Cepa,; Sabad.; Silica.

Dose. -- Third to sixth potency.

ASAFOETIDA
(Gum of the Stinkasand)

The flatulence and spasmodic contraction of stomach
and cesophagus with reverse peristalsis are the most
marked symptoms. In its selection, its relation to the
hysterical and hypochondriacal patients, must be borne
in mind. Besides these superficial] symptoms, it has
been found to affect favorably deep ulcerations, caries
of bones, especially in the syphilitic organism; here, the
extreme sensitiveness and terrible throbbing, nightly
pains, guiding to its use.

Head. — Irritable; complains of her troubles; sensi-
tive. Boring above eyebrows. Pressive pain from
within outward,
ASAFETIDA 103

Eyes. — Orbital neuralgia; better, pressure and rest.
Iritis and intraocular inflammations, with boring, throb-
bing pains at night. Stitches under left frontal
eminences. Boring pains in and around eyes. Syphil-
tic iritis. Superficial corneal ulcer with digging pains;
worse at night.

Ears. — Offensive otorrhoea, with boring pains in mas~-
toid bone. Mastoid disease with pain in temporal
region with pushing out sensation. Offensive, purulent
discharge.

Nose. — Syphilitic ozena, with very offensive purulent
discharge. Caries of nasal bones. [Aurum.]

Throat. -— Globus hystericus. Ball rises in throat.
Sensation as if peristaltic motion were reversed, and
cesophagus were driven from stomach to throat.

Stomach, — Great difficulty ‘n bringing up wind.
Flatulence and regurgitation of liquid. Hysterical
flatulence. Great distention. Sensation of emptiness
and weakness, with distention and beating in stomach
and abdomen. Forcible eructation of gas. Pulsation
in pit of stomach. Violent gastralgia; cutting and
burning in stomach and region of diaphragm. Gurg-
ling and rolling of wind, which escapes afterwards with
loud and difficult eructation.

Female. —-Mammz turgid with milk in the unim-
pregnated. Deficient milk, with oversensitiveness,

Rectum. — Distended, griping, with hunger. Obsti-
nate constipation. Pain in perineum, as if something
dull pressed out. Diarrhea, extremely offensive, with
meteorism, and regurgitation of food.

Chest. — Spasmodic tightness, as if lungs could not
be fully expanded. Palpitation more like a tremor.

Bones. —- Darting pain and caries in bones. Perios-
teum painful, swollen, enlarged. Ulcers affecting bones;
thin, ichorous pus.
104 ASAFCETIDA—-ASARUM EUROPUM

Skin, — Itching, better scratching; ulcers painful on
edges, Suppressed skit. symptoms produce nervous dis-
orders.

Modalities. — If’orse, at night; from touch; left side,
during rest, warm applications. Petter, open air; from
motion, pressure.

Relationship. -— Antidotes: China; Mercur.

Compare: Aloschus; China; Mercur; Aurum,

Dose. — Second to sixth potency.

ASARUM EUROPUM
(European Snake-root)

A remedy for nervous affections, loss of energy, with
excessive erethism. Scraiching on silk or linen or paper
unlearable. Pains and spasmodic muscular actions.
Nervous deafness and asthenopia. Cold shivers from
any emotion. Feels as it parts were pressed together.
Tension and contractive sensations. Always feels cold.

Mind, — Thoughts vanish, with drawing pressure in
forchead, Sensibility increased, even from mere im-
agination,

Head. — Compressive pain. Tension of scalp; hair
painful, [China.] Coryza, with sneezing.

Eyes. — Feel stiff; burn; feel cold. Better, in cold
air or water; worse, sunlight and wind. Darting pains
in eyes after operations. Asthenopia.

Ears. — Sensation as if plugged up. Catarrh with
deafness.

Stomach.—-Loss of appetite, flatulence, eructation,
and vomiting. Desire for alcoholic drinks. Smoking-
tobacco tastes bitter. Nausea; worse after eating. Clean
tongue. Great faintness. Accumulation of cold, watery
saliva.
ASARUM EUROPUM —- ASCLEPIAS SYRIACA 105

Rectum. — Strings of odorless, yellow mucus pass
from bowels. Diarrhcea of tough mucus. Undigestcd
stools. Prolapse,

Female. — Menses too early, long lasting, black. Vio-
lent pain in small of back. Tenacious, yellow leucor-
rhea. .

Respiratory. — Nervous, hacking cough. Short r2s-
piration.

Back. — Paralytic pain in muscles of nape of neck.
Weakness, with staggering.

Fever. — Chilliness, single parts get icy cold. Easily
excited perspiration.

Modalities. — Worse, in cold dry weather; penetrat-
ing sounds. Setter, from washing; in damp and wet
weather,

Relationship. — Compare: /pecac., especially in diar-
rhea; Silica; Nux; China,

Dose. — Third to sixth potency.

ASCLEPIAS SYRIACA
(Silkweed)

A remedy for dropsy, hepatic, renal or cardiac and
post-scarlatinal; causes diaphoresis and augments the
urinary secretion. Acute rheumatic inflammation of
large joints. Intermittent, pressing-down uterine pains.

Head. — Feels as if a sharp instrument were thrust
through from temple to temple. Constriction across
forehead. Nervous headache, after suppressed per-
spiration, followed by increased urine, with increase of
specific gravity. Headache from retention of effete
matters in system.

Relationship. — Compare: A sclepias Vincetoxicum. —
Swallow-wort — Cynanchum -—.4  gastro-intestinal ir-
106 ASCLEPIAS SYR. -— ASCLEPIAS TUB. — ASIMINA TRI,

ritant, producing vomiting and purgation. — (Useful in
dropsy, diabetes, great thirst, profuse urination.)
Dose. — Tincture.

ASCLEPIAS TUBEROSA
(Pleurisy-root)

Its action on the chest muscles is most marked, and
has been verified. Sick headache, with flatulence in
stomach and bowels. Dyspepsia. Bronchitis and pleu-
risy come within its range. Catarrhal states from cold
and damp weather. Irritation of larynx with huski-
ness; grip, with pleuritic pain.

Respiratory. — Respiration painful, especially at base
of lett lung. Dry cough; throat constricted; causes
pain in head and abdomen. Pain in chest; shooting
downward from left nipple. A general eliminative rem-
edy, acting specially on the sudoriparous glands. Chest
pains are relieved by bending forward. Spaces between
ribs close to sternum tender. Lancinating pain between
shoulders. Catarrh, with frontal headache, and sticky
yellow discharge.

Stomach. — Fullness, pressure, weight. Flatulence
after meals. Sensitive to tobacco.

Rectum. — Catarrhal dysentery, with rheumatic pains
all over. Stools smell like rotten eggs.

Extremities. — Rheumatic joints give sensation as if
adhesions being broken up on bending.

Relationship. — Compare: Bryonia; Dulc.

Dose. — Tincture and first potency.

ASIMINA TRILOBA
(Papaw)

Produces a series of symptoms much like scarlet
feyer, sore throat, fever, vomiting, scarlet eruption;
ASIMINA TRILOBA — ASPARAGUS OFFICINALIS 107

tonsils and sub-maxillary glands enlarged, with diar-
rhaa. Desire for ice-cold things. Hoarseness.

Acne, Itching in evening on undressing.

Relationship. — Compare: Capsic.; Bellad.

ASPARAGUS OFFICINALIS
(Common Garden Asparagus)

Its marked and immediate action on the urinary se-
cretion 1s well known. It causes weakness and cardiac
depression. Rheumatic pains.

Head. —- Confused. Coryza, with profuse, thin fluid.
Aching in forehead and root of nose. Migrainous morn-
ing headache with scetoma. Throat feels rough, with
hawking copious, tenacious mucus from throat.

Urine. — Frequent, with fine stitches in orifice of
urethra; burning; of peculiar odor. Cystitis, with pus,
mucus and tenesmus. Lithiasis.

Heart. — Palpitation, with oppression of chest. Pulse
weak, pain about left shoulder and heart, associated
with bladder disturbances. Great oppression in breath-
ing. Hydrothorax.

Extremities. — Rheumatic pain in back, especially
near shoulder and limbs. Pain at acromion process of
left scapula under clavicle and down arm, with feeble
pulse.

Relationship. — Antidote: Acon.; Apis.

Compare: Physalis Alkekengi— Winter cherry —
(Enurcsis; Lithiasis; has marked diuretic action.) Dig-
ital.; Sarsap.; Spigelia.

Dose. — Sixth potency.
108  ASPIDOSPERMA — ASTACUS FLUV. — AST. RUB.

ASPIDOSPERMA
(Quebracho)

The digitalis of the lungs. (Hale.) Removes tem-
porary obstruction to the oxidation of the blood by stim-
ulating respiratory centres, increasing oxidation and
excretion of carbonic acid. Pulmonary _ stenosis.
Thrombosis of pulmonary artery. Uraemic dyspneea.
An effective remedy in many cases of asthma. It stim-
ulates the respiratory centers and increases the oxygen
in the blood. “Want of breath” during exertion is the
guiding symptom. Cardiac asthma.

Relationship. — Compare: Coca; Arsenic; Coffea.—
Catalpa (difficult respiration).

Dose. — First trituration or tincture, or Aspidosper-
min hydrochlorid 1 grain cf 1x trit. Every hour for a
few doses.

ASTACUS FLUVIATILIS — CANCER ASTACUS
(Crawtish)

Skin symptoms most important. Urticaria.

Skin. — Nettle-rash over whole body. Itching.
Crusta lactea, with enlarged lymphatic glands. Ery-
sipelas, and liver affections with nettle-rash. Swelling
of cervical glands. Jaundice.

Fever.— Inward chilliness; very sensitive to air,
worse uncovering ; violent fever, with headache.

Relationship. — Compare: Rombyx — Caterpillar —
itching of whole body. (Urticaria.) Apis; Rhus; Nat.
m.; Homar, Antidote: Poison Oak.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

ASTERIAS RUBENS
(Red Starfish)
A remedy for the sycotic diathesis; flabby, lymphatic
constitution, flabby with red face. Lancinating pains,
ASTERIAS RUBENS 109

Nervous disturbances, neuralgias, chorea, and hysteria
come within the range of this remedy. Has been used
for cancer of the breast, and has an unquestioned in-
fluence over cancer disease. Excitement in both sexes.

Head. — Cannot bear contradiction. Shocks in brain;
throbbing; heat in head, as if surrounded by hot air.

Face.— Red. Pimples on side of nose, chin and
mouth. Disposition io pimples at adolescence.

Female. — Colic and other sufferings cease with ap-
pearance of flow. Breasts swell and pain in breasts;
worse left. Ulceration with sharp pains, piercing to
scapule. Pains down left arm to fingers, worse motion,
Excitement of sexual instinct with nervous agitation.

Nodes and indurations of mammary gland, dull ach-
ing, neuralgic pain in this region. [Conium.]

Chest. -—- Breasts swollen, indurated. Neuralgia of
left breast and aim. [Brom.] Pain under sternum and
in muscles of precordial region. Left breast feels as if
pulled inevard, ard pain extends over inner arm to end
of little finger. Numbness of hand and fingers of left
side. Cancer mamme even in ulcerative stage. Acute,
lancinating pain. Axillary glands swollen hard and
knotted,

Nervous System. — Gait unsteady; muscles refuse to
obey the will. Epilepsy; preceded by twitching over
whole body,

Stool — Constipation. Ineffectual desire. Stool like
olives. Diarrhoea, watery brown, gushing out in jet.

Skin. — Destitute of pliability and elasticity. Itching
spots. Ulcers, with fetid ichor. Acne. Psoriasis and
herpes zoster worse left arm and chest. Enlarged ax-
illary glands, worse, at night and in damp weather.

Relationship, — Antidotes: Plumb.; Zinc.

Compare: Conium; Carbo; Ars.; Condurango.

Incompatible: Nua, Coffea,
110 ASTER. RUB.—- ASTRAGALUS MOL.— AURUM MET.

Modalities. — Worse, coffee, night; cold damp
weather. Left side.

Dose.—Sixth potency.

ASTRAGALUS MOLLISSIMUS
(Purple or Woolly Loco-weed)

Irregularities in gait — paralytic affections. Loss of
muscular co-ordination,

Head. — Fullness in right temple and upper jaw. Pain
over left eyebrow. Painful facial bones. Dizzy. Pres-
sive pain in temples. Pain and pressure in maxillz.

Stomach. — Weakness and emptiness. Burning in
esophagus and stomach.

Extremities. — Purring sensation in right foot outer
side from heel to toe. Icy coldness of left calf.

Relationship.— Compare: Arugallus Lamberti—
White Loco-weed — Rattleweed; Baryta; Oxytropis.

Dose. — Sixth potency.

AURUM METALLICUM
(Metallic Gold)

Given full play, Aurum develops in the organism,
by attacking the blood, glands, and bene, conditions
bearing striking resemblance to mercurial and syphilitic
infections; and it is just for such deteriorations of the
bodily fluids and alterations in the tissues, that Aurum
assumes great importance as a remedy. Like the vic-
tim of syphilis, mental states of great depression are
produced by it. Hopeless, despondent, and great desire
to commit suicide. Every opportunity is sought for
self-destruction. Exostosis, caries, nightly bone-pains,
AURUM METALLICUM 111

especially cranial, nasal, and palatine. Glands swollen
in scrofulous subjects. Palpitation and congestions.
Frequently indicated in secondary syphilis and effects
of mercury. This use of gold as an anti-venereal and
anti-scrofulous remedy is very old, but has been well-
nigh forgotten by the old school until rediscovered and
placed on its scientific basis by homceopathy, and now
it can never be lost again. When syphilis is implanted
on the scrofulous constitution, we have one of the most
intractable morbid conditions, and gold seems to be
especially suited to the vile combination. Ennut.
Ozena; sexual hyperesthesia. Arterioscierosis, high
*blood pressure; nightly paroxysms of pain behind ster-
num. Sclerosis of liver, arterial system, brain.

Mind. — Profound despondency, with thorough dis-,
gust of life, and thoughts of suicide. Talks of com-
miting suicide. Great fear of death. Peevish and
vehement at least contradiction. Anthropophobia. Men-
tal derangements. Constant rapid questioning without
waiting for reply. Pining boys; low spirited, lifeless,
weak memory. Cannot do things fast enough. Over-
sensitiveness; [Staph.] to noise, excitement, confusion.

Head. — Violent pain in head; worse at night, out-
ward pressure. Roaring in head. Vertigo. Tearing
through brain to forehead. Pain in bones extending to
face. Congestion to head. Boils on scalp.

Eyes.— Extreme photophobia. Great soreness all
about the eyes and into eyeballs. Double vision; upper
half of objects invisible. Feel tense. Sees fiery objects.
Violent pains in bones around eye [Asaf.] Interstitial
keratitis. Vascular cornea. Pains from without in-
ward. Sticking pains inward. Trachoma with pannus.

Ears. — Caries of ossicula and of mastoid. Obstinate
fetid otorrhea after scarlatina. External meatus bathed
112 AURUM METALLICUM

in pus. Chronic nerve deafness; Labyrinthine disease
due to syphilis.

Nose. — Ulceratcd, painful, swollen, obstructed. In-
flammation of nose; caries; fetid discharge, purulent,
bloody. Boring pains in nose; worse at night. Putrid
smell from nose. Sensitive smell. [Carbol. ac.] Hor-
rible odor from nose and mouth. Knobby tip of nose.

Mouth.— Foul breath in girls at puberty. Taste
putrid or bitter. Ulceration of gums.

Face. — Tearing in zygoma. Mastoid and other facial
bones inflamed.

Throat. — Stitches when swallowing; pain in glands.
Caries of the palate.

Stomach. — Appetite and thirst increased, with
qualmishness. Swelling of epigastrium. Burning at
stomach and hot eructations.

Abdomen. — Right hypochondrium hot and painful.
Incarcerated flatus. Swelling and suppuration of in-
guinal glands.

Urine. — Turbid, like buttermilk, with thick sediment.
Painful retention.

Rectum. — Constipation, stools hard and_ knotty.
Nocturnal diarrhea, with burning in rectum.

Male. — Pain and swelling of testicles. Chronic in-
duration of testicles. Violent erections. Atrophy of
testicles in boys. Hydrocele. .

Female. — Great sensitiveness of vagina. Uterus en-
larged and prolapsed. Sterility; vaginismus.

Heart. — Sensation as if the heart stopped beating
for two or three seconds, immediately followed by a
tumultuous rebound, with sinking at the epigastrium
Palpitation. Pulse rapid, feeble, irregular. Hyper-
trophy.
112 AURUM METALLICUM

in pus. Chronic nerve deafness; Labyrinthine disease
due to syphilis.

Nose. — Ulceratcd, painful, swollen, obstructed. In-
flammation of nose; caries; fetid discharge, purulent,
bloody. Boring pains in nose; worse at night. Putrid
smell from nose. Sensitive smell. [Carbol. ac.] Hor-
rible odor from nose and mouth. Knobby tip of nose.

Mouth.— Foul breath in girls at puberty. Taste
putrid or bitter. Ulceration of gums.

Face. — Tearing in zygoma. Mastoid and other facial
bones inflamed.

Throat. — Stitches when swallowing; pain in glands.
Caries of the palate.

Stomach. — Appetite and thirst increased, with
qualmishness. Swelling of epigastrium. Burning at
stomach and hot eructations.

Abdomen. — Right hypochondrium hot and painful.
Incarcerated flatus. Swelling and suppuration of in-
guinal glands.

Urine. — Turbid, like buttermilk, with thick sediment.
Painful retention.

Rectum. — Constipation, stools hard and_ knotty.
Nocturnal diarrhea, with burning in rectum.

Male. — Pain and swelling of testicles. Chronic in-
duration of testicles. Violent erections. Atrophy of
testicles in boys. Hydrocele. .

Female. — Great sensitiveness of vagina. Uterus en-
larged and prolapsed. Sterility; vaginismus.

Heart. — Sensation as if the heart stopped beating
for two or three seconds, immediately followed by a
tumultuous rebound, with sinking at the epigastrium
Palpitation. Pulse rapid, feeble, irregular. Hyper-
trophy.
AURUM METALLICUM 113

Respiratory. — Dyspnea at night. Frequent, deep
breathing; stitches in sternum.

Bones. — Destruction of bones, like secondary syph-
ilis. Caries of the nasal, palatine, and mastoid bones.

Extremities. — All the blood seems to rush from head
to lower limbs. Dropsy of lower limbs. Orgasm, as if
blood were boiling in all veins, Paralytic, tearing pains
in joints. Knees weak.

Sleep. — Sleepless. Sobs aloud in sleep. Frightful
dreams.

Modalities. — Worse, in cold weather when getting
cold. Many complaints come on only in winter, from
sunset to sunrise.

Relationship. — Compare: Aur. ars. (chronic aortitis ;
lupus, phthisis) in syphilitic headaches; also in anzmii
and chlorosis. It causes rapid increase of appetite.

* Aur. brom. (in headaches with neurasthenia, megrim,
night terrors, valvular diseases).

dur, mur. (Burning, yellow, acrid leucorrhea;
heart symptoms, glandular affections; warts on tongue
and genitals; sclerotic and exudative degeneration of
the nervous system. Multiple sclerosis. Morvan's dis-
ease. Second trituration. Aur. mur. is a sycotic rem-
edy, causing suppressed discharges to reappear. Valu-
able in climacteric hemorrhages from the womb. [Hy-
drastinin.] Stitching pain in left side of forehead
Weariness, aversion to all work. Drawing feeling in
stomach.)

Aur. mur. Kali,— Double chloride of Potassium and
gold. (In uterine induration and hemorrhage.)

Aur, iod. (Chronic pericarditis, valvular diseases,
arteriosclerosis, ozena, lupus, osteitis, ovarian cysts,
myomata uteri, are pathological lesions, that offer fa-
vorable ground for the action of this powerful drug
Senile paresis.)
114 AURUM MET. — AUR, MUR. NAT. — AVENA SATIVA

Aur, sulph. (Paralysis agitans; constant nodding of
the head; affections of mamme; swelling, pain, cracked
nipples with lancinating pains.)

Also, Asaf@et. (in caries of bones of ears and nose).
Syphilin; Kali iod.; Hep.; Merc.; Mes.; Nit. ac.;
Phosph.

Antidotes: Bell.; Cinch.; Cupr.; Merc.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

AURUM MURIATICUM NATRONATUM
(Sodium Chloroaurate)

This remedy has a most pronounced effect on the
female organs, and most of its clinical application has
been based thereon. Psoriasis syphilitica. Periosteal
swelling on lower jaw. Swelling of testicle. High blood
pressure due to disturbed function of nervous mech-
anism, Arterio-sclernsis, Syphilitie Ataxia.

Tongue. — Burning; stitches, and induration.

Female. — Indurated cervix. Coldness in abdomen.
Chronic metritis and prolapsus. Uterus fills up whole
pelvis. Ulceration of neck of womb and vagina. Leu-
corrho:a, with spasmodic contraction of vagina. Ovaries
indurated. Ovarian dropsy. Sub-jnvolution.

Dose. — Second and third trituration.

AVENA SATIVA
(Common Oat)

Has a selective action on brain and nervous system,
favorably influencing their nutritive function.
Nervous exhaustion, sexual debility, and the mor-
hine habit call for this remedy in rather material dos-
wee. Best tonic for debility after exhausting diseases.
‘Nerve tremors of the aged; chorea, paralysis agitans,
AVENA SATIVA — AZADIRACIITA INDICA 115

epilepsy. Post-diphtheritic paralysis. Rheumatism of
heart. Colds. Alcoholism. Sleeplessness, especially oi
alcoholics. Dad effects of Morphine habit. Nervous
states of many female troubles.

Mind. — Inability to keep mind on any one subject.

Head. — Nervous headache at menstrual period, with
burning at top of head. Occipital headache, with phos-
phatic urine.

Female.—- Amenorrhea and dysmenorrhea, with
weak circulation.

Male. — Spermatorrhea; impotency; after too much
indulgence.

Extremities. — Numbness of limbs, as if paralyzed.
Strength of hand diminished.

Relationship.— Compare: Alfalfa. (General tonic
similar to avena —-also in scanty and suppressed urine.)

Dose. — Tincture ten to twenty drop doses, prefet-
ably in hot water.

AZADIRACHTA INDICA
{Margosa Bark)

An afternoon fever and rheumatic pains in various
parts are caused by this remedy. Pain in sternum and
ribs, in back and shoulders and extremities; heat, prick-
ing and aching in hands, especially palms, fingers, also
toes, ‘

Head. — Forgetful; giddy on rising ; head aches, scalp
sensitive; eyes burn, pain in right eyeball.

Fever. — Slight chill, afternoon fever, glowing heat
in face, hands, and feet, copious sweat on upper pact
of body.

Relationship.— Compare: Cedron; Natr. mur.;
Arsenic.
116 BACILLINUM

BACILLINUM
(A Maceration of a Typical Tuberculous Lung)
Introduced by Dr. Burnett

Has been employed successfully in the treatment of
tuberculosis; its good effects seen in the change of the
sputum, which becomes decreased and more aerated and
less purulent. Many forms of chronic non-tubercular
disease are influenced favorably by Bacillinum, espe-
cially when bronchorrhoea and dyspnoea are present; the
patient cxpectoratcs less, *

Bacillinum is especially indicated for lungs of old
people, with chronic catarrhal condition and enfeebled
pulmonary circulation, attacks of suffocation at night
with difficult cough. Tubercular meningitis. Favors
falling off of tartar of teeth. Constant disposition to
take cold.

Head. — Irritable, depressed. Severe, deep-in head-
ache, also as cf a tight hoop. Ringworm. Eczema of
eyelids.

Abdomen. — Abdominal pains, enlarged glands in
groins, tabes mesenterica. Sudden diarrhcea before
breakfast. Obstinate constipation, with offensive flatus

Respiratory. -— Oppression. Catarrhal dyspnea. Hu-
mid asthma. Bubbling rales and muco-purulent expec-
toration. Note. This muco-purulent expectoration of
bronchitic patients is equally poly-bacillary; it is a mix-
ture of diverse species and hence Bacillinum is truly
indicated. (Cartier.) Often relieves congestion of the
lungs, thus paving way for other remedies in ‘Tuber-
sculosis. .
tr sSkin.— Ringworm of the scalp; pityriasis. Eczema
pfieyelids. Glaads of neck enlarged and tender.
Modalities. — Vorsc, night and early morning; cold
air.
BACILLINUM — BADIAGA 117

Relationship. — Antimon. iod.; Lach.; Arsenic. tod.;
Myosotis. Levico, 5-10 drops, follows as an intercur-
rent where much debility is present (Burnett).

Complementary: Calc. phos.; Kali carb.

Compare: Its effects seem to be identical to that of
Koch’s Tuberculinum. Both are useful in the tuber-
cular diathesis before phthisis has developed. In the
carly stages of tubercular disease of glands, joints, skin
and bones. Lsorinum. Seems to be its chronic equiva-
lent. Bacillin. testium (acts especially on lower half of
the body.

Dose. — The dose is important. Should not be given
below the thirtieth, and not repeated frequently. One
dose a week often sufficient to bring about reaction. It
is rapid in action and good results ought to be seen
soon, otherwise there is no need of repetition.

BADIAGA
(Fresh-water Sponge)

‘ "Soreness of muscles and integuments ; worse motion
and “friction of” clothes, with sensitiveness to co'd.
Glands swollen. General paresis.

Head. — Sensation of enlargement and fullness. Pain
in forehead and temple, extending to eyeballs, worse in
afternoon. Blueness under eyes. Dandruff; scalp sore,
dry, tetter-like. Dull, dizzy feeling in head. Coryza,
sneezing, watery discharge; with asthmatic breathing
and suffocative cough. Influenza. Slight sounds are
greatly accentuated,

Eyes. — Twitching of left upper lid; eyeballs tender;
aching in eyeballs. Intermittent sore pain in eyeba!l,
coming on at 3 P. M.

Respiratory. — Cough; worse in afternoon, better in
warm room. The mucus flies out of mouth and nostrils.
118 BADIAGA -— BALSAMUM PERUVIANUM

. Whooping -ce cough, with thick yellgw expectoration; flies
out. Hay-f fever, with asthmatic breathing. Pleuritic
stitches in chest, neck, and back.

Stomach. — Mouth hot. Much thirst. Lancinating
pain in pit of stomach extending to vertebra and
scapula.

Female. — Metrorrhagia; worse at night, with feel-
ing of enlargement of head. [Arg.] “Cancer of breast.
[Asterias; Con.; Carbo an.; Plumb. iod.}

Heart. — Indescribable bad feeling about the hearst
with soreness and pain, flying stitches all over.

Skin. — Sore to touch. Freckles. Rhagades.

Back. —Stitches in nape, scapule. Pain in small of
“hack? “hips and”lower limbs. ~ Very stiff neck. Muscles
and skin sore, as if beaten. 7

Modalities. — Worse by cold. Better, by heat.

Relationship. — Compare: Merc. similar but opposite
modalities. Spongia; Kali hvd.; Phytol.; Conium.

Complementary: Sulph.; Merc.; lod.

Dose. — First to sixth attenuation.

BALSAMUM PERUVIANUM
(Peruvian Balsam)

Useful in bronchial catarrh, with copious, purulent
expectoration. Debility; hectic fever 6x.

Nose. — Profuse, thick discharge, Eczema, with ul-
ceration. Chronic, fetid, nasal catarrh.

Stomach. — Vomiting of food and mucus. Catarrh
of stomach.

Chest. — Bronchitis, and phthisis, with muco-purulent,
thick, creamy expectoruiion. J.oud rales in chest.
[Kah sulph.; Ant. tart.) Very loose cough. Hectic
fever and night-sweats, with irritating, short cough and
scanty expectoration.
BALSAM PERUVIANUM — BAPTISIA 119

Urine. — Scanty: much mucus sediment. Catarrh of
bladder. [Chimaph.]

Relationship. — Balsamuim Tolutanum (chronic bron-
chitis with profuse expectoration). (Oleum caryophyi-
lum — oil of cloves--in profuse septic expectoration
—3 to 5 minims in milk or capsules.)

Dose. — First attenuation: In hectic 6x.

Extra homeopathic uses Incally :--As a stimulant
to raw surtaces in indolent ulcers, scabies, cracked nip-
ples, rhagades, itch. Internally, as an expectorant, in
chronic bronchitis. Dose, 5 to 15 M., made into an
cmulsion with mucilage or yolk of egg.

BAPTISIA
(Wild Indigo)

The symptoms of this drug are of an asthenic type.
simulating low fevers, septic conditions of the blood,
maiarial poisoning, and extreme prostration. Indescrib-
able sick feeling. Great muscular soreness and putrid
phenomena always are prescnt, All the secretions are
offensive — breath, stool, urine, sweat, etc. Epidemic
influenza. Chronic intestinal toxemias of children with
fetid stools and eructations.

Baptisia in low dilutions produces a form of am
bodies to the bac. typhosus, viz. the agglutinins,
[Aellon.] Thus it raises the natural bodily resistance
to the invasion of the bacillary intoxication, which pro-
duces the typhoid syndrome. Typhoid carriers. After
inoculation with anti-typhoid serum. Intermittent pulse,
especially in the aged.

Mind. — Wild, wandering feeling. Inability to think.
Brain-fag. Ideas confused. Thinks he is broken or
double, and tosses about the bed trying to get pieces
together. [Cajeput.] Delirium, wandering, muttering
120 BAPTISIA

Perfect indifference. Falls asleep while being spoken
to. Melancholia, with stupor.

Head. — Confused, swimming feeling. Vertigo; pres-
sure at root of nose. Skin of forehead feels tight:
seems drawn to back of head. Feels too large, heavy,
numb. Soreness of eyeballs. Brain feels sore. Stupor;
falls asleep while spoken to. Early deafness in typhoid
conditions.

Face. — Besotted look. Dark red. Pain at root of
nose. Muscles of jaw rigid.

Mouth. — Taste flat, bitter. Teeth and gums sore,
ulcerated. Breath fetid. Tongue feels burned; yellow-
ish-brown; edges red and shining. Dry and brown in
center, with dry and glistening edges; surface cracked
and sore. Can swallow liquids only; least solid food
gags.

Throat.— Dark redness of tonsils and soft palate.
Constriction, contraction of e@sophagus. ([Cajeput.]
Great difficulty in swallowing solid tood. Painless sore
throat, and offensive discharge. Contraction at cardiac
orifice.

Stomach. — No appetite. Constant desire for water.
Sinking feeling at stomach, Pain in episgastric region.
Feeling of hard substance. [Abies nig.] All symptoms
worse from beer. [Kali bich]. Cardiac orifice
contracted convulsively and ulcerative inflammation of
stomach and bowels,

Abdomen. - - Right side markedly affected. Distended
and rumbling. Soreness over region of gall-bladder,
with diarrhea. Stools very offensive, thin, dark,
bloody. Soreness of abdomen, in region of liver. Dys-
entery of old people.

Female. — Threatened miscarriage from mental de-
pression. shock, watching, low fevers. Menses too early,
too profuse. Lochia acrid, fetid. Puerperal fever.
BAPTISIA — BAROSMA 121

Respiratory. — Lungs feel compressed, breathing dif-
ficult. Fears going to sleep on account of nightmare
and sense of suffocation.® Constriction of chest.

Back and Extremities. — Neck tired. Stiffness and
pain, aching and drawing ia arms and legs. Pain in
sacrum, around hips and legs. Sore and bruised. De-
cubitus.

Sleep.— Sleepless and restless. Nightmare and
frightful dreams. Cannot get herself together, feels
scattered about bed. Falls asleep while answering a
question. .

Skin. — Livid spots all over body and limbs. Burn-
ing and heat in skin. [Arsenic.] Putrid ulcers with
stupor, low delirium and prostration.

Fever. — Chill, with rheumatic pains and soreness all
over body. Heat all over, with occasional chills. Chill
about 11 a.m. Typhus fever. Shipboard fever.

Modalities. -—- Worse: Humid heat; fog; indoors.

Relationship.-— Compare: Ailanthus differs, being
more painful. Baptisia more painless. Rhus; Muriat.
acid; Arsenic; Bryon.; Arnica; Echinac.

Baptisia confusia. (Pain in right jaw and oppression
in left hypochondrium, producing dyspnoea and neces-
sity to assume erect position.)

Dose, — Tincture, to twelfth attenuation.

BAROSMA
(Buchu)

Marked specific effects on genito-urinary system;
muco-purulent discharges. Irvitable bladder, with vesi-
cal catarrh ; prostatic disorders. Gravel. Leucorrhcea.

Relationship. — Compare: Copaiva; Thuja; Populus;
Chimaph.

Dose. — Tincture or tea from leaves.
122 BARYTA ACETICA — BARYTA CARB,

BARYTA ACETICA
(Acetate of Baryta)

Mind. -- Forgetiul; wavermg long between opposite
resolutions.

Face. — Feeling of cobweb in face.

Extremities. — Drawing pain down whole left leg.
Crawling, with burning stitches. Paralysis.
Dose. — Second and third trituration.

BARYTA CARB
(Carbonate of Baryta)

This remedy brings aid to scrofulous children, espe-
cially if they are backward mentally and physically,
are dwarfish, do not grow and develop, have scrofulous
ophthalmia, swollen abdomen, take cold easily, and then
always have swellen tonsils. Persons subject to quinsy
which is prone to suppurate; gums bleed easily. Dis-
eases cf old meu when degenerative changes begin;
who have hypertrophied prostate or indurated testes,
very sensitive to cold, offensive foot-sweats, very weak
and weary, must sit or lie down or lean on something
Very averse to meeting strangers. Catarrh of posterior
nares, with frequent epistaxis. Often useful in the
dyspepsias of the young who have masturbated and who
suffer from seminal emissions, together with cardiac ir-
ritability and palpitation. Affects glandular structures,
and useful in general degenerative changes, especially
in coats of arteries, aneurism, and senility. Baryta is-.
a cardio-vascular poison acting on the muscular coats
of heart and vessels. Arterial fibrosis. Blood-vessels
soften and degenerate, become disteuded, and aneurisms,
ruptures, and apoplexies result.
122 BARYTA ACETICA — BARYTA CARB,

BARYTA ACETICA
(Acetate of Baryta)

Mind. -- Forgetiul; wavermg long between opposite
resolutions.

Face. — Feeling of cobweb in face.

Extremities. — Drawing pain down whole left leg.
Crawling, with burning stitches. Paralysis.
Dose. — Second and third trituration.

BARYTA CARB
(Carbonate of Baryta)

This remedy brings aid to scrofulous children, espe-
cially if they are backward mentally and physically,
are dwarfish, do not grow and develop, have scrofulous
ophthalmia, swollen abdomen, take cold easily, and then
always have swellen tonsils. Persons subject to quinsy
which is prone to suppurate; gums bleed easily. Dis-
eases cf old meu when degenerative changes begin;
who have hypertrophied prostate or indurated testes,
very sensitive to cold, offensive foot-sweats, very weak
and weary, must sit or lie down or lean on something
Very averse to meeting strangers. Catarrh of posterior
nares, with frequent epistaxis. Often useful in the
dyspepsias of the young who have masturbated and who
suffer from seminal emissions, together with cardiac ir-
ritability and palpitation. Affects glandular structures,
and useful in general degenerative changes, especially
in coats of arteries, aneurism, and senility. Baryta is-.
a cardio-vascular poison acting on the muscular coats
of heart and vessels. Arterial fibrosis. Blood-vessels
soften and degenerate, become disteuded, and aneurisms,
ruptures, and apoplexies result.
BARYTA CARB. 123

Mind. — Loss of memory, mental weakness. Irreso-
lute. Lost confidence in himself. Senile dementia.
Confusion. Bashful. Aversion to strangers. Childish;
grief over trifles.

Head. — Vertigo; stitches, when standing in the sun,
extending through head. Brain feels as if loose. Hair
falls out. Confusion. Wens.

Eyes. — Alternate dilatation and contraction of pu-
pils. Photophobia. Gauze before eyes. Cataracts.
[Cale.; Phos.; Sil.]

Ears.— Hardness of hearing. Crackling noise.
Glands around cars painful and swollen. Reverberatinn
on blowing nose.

Nose -- Dry; sneezing; coryza, with swelling of up-
per lip and nose. Sensation of smoke in nose. Dis-
charge of thick, yellow mucus. Frequent bleeding.
Scabs around wings of nose.

Face.— Pale, puffed; sensation as of cobwe
[-dlumina.] Upper lip swollen.

Mouth. — Awakes with dry mouth. Gums bleed and
retract. Teeth ache before menses. Mouth filled with
inflamed vesicles, foul taste. Paralysis of tongue.
Smarting, burning pain in tip of tongue. Dribbling of
saliva at dawn.

Throat. — Submaxillary glands and tonsils swollen.
Takes cold easily, with. stitches and smarting pain.
Quinsy. Suppurating tonsils from every cold. Tonsils
inflammed,, with swollen veins. Smarting-pain when
swallowing; worse empty swallowing. Feeling of a
plug in pharynx. Can only swallow liquids. Spasm of
cesophagus as soon as food enters cesophagus, causes
gagging and choking. [Merc. cor.; Graphit.] Throat
troubles from over use of voice. Stinging pain in ton-
sils, pharynx or larynx.
124 BARYTA CARB.

Stomach. — Waterbrash, hiccough, and_ eructation,
which relieves pressure as of a stone. Hungry, but
refuses food. Pain and weight immediately after a
meal, with epigastric tenderness. [Kali carb.] Worse
after warm food.

Abdomen. — Hard and tense, distended. Colicky.
Enlarged mesenteric glands. Pain in abdomen swallow-
ing food. Habitual colic, with hunger, but food is
refused.

Rectum. — Constipation, with hard, knotty stools.
Hemorrhoids protrude on urinating. Crawling in rec-
tum. Oozing at anus.

Urinary. — Every time patient urinates, his piles come
down. Urging to urinate. Burning in urethra on
urinating.

Male. — Diminished desire and premature impotence.
Enlarged prostate. [Thuju, Arg. nit.; Digit]

Female. — Before menses, pain in stomach and small
of back. Menses scanty.

Respiratory. — Dry, suffocative cough, especially in
old people. [Sencga.] Larynx feels as if smoke were
inhaled. Chronic aphonia. Stitches in chest; worse,
inspiration. Lungs feel full of smoke.

Heart. — Palpitation and distress in region of heart.
Aneurism. [{Lycop.] Accelerates the heart’s action at
first, blood pressure much increased, contraction of blood
vessels. Palpitation when lying on left side, when think.
ing of it especially; pulse fuil and hard, Cardiac symp-
toms after suppressed foot-sweat.

Back.— Swollen glands in nape of occiput, Fatty
tumors about neck. Bruised pain between scapule.
Stiffness in sacrum. Weakness of spine.
BARYTA CARB. — BARYTA 10D. —BARYTA MUR. 125

Extremities. — Pain in axillary glands, Cold, clammy
feet. [Calc.] Fetid foot-sweats. Numbness of limbs.
Numb feeling from knees to scrotum; disappears when
sitting down. Toes and soles sore; soles painful when
walking. Pain in joints; burning pains in lower limbs.

Sleep. — Talking in sleep; awakens frequently; feels
too hot. Twitching during sleep.

Modalities. — Worse, while thinking of symptoms;
from washing; lying on painful side. Better, walking
in open air.

Relationship. — Compare: Digitalis; Radium; Aragal-
lus; Oxytrop; Astrag. Complementary: Dulc.; Silica;
Psorin. Incompatible: Calc. Antidote for poisonous
doses: Epsom salts.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency, the latter to re-
move the predisposition to quinsy.

BARYTA IODATA
(Iodide of Baryta)

Acts on the lymphatic system, increased leucocytosis.
Quinsy. Indurated glands, especially tonsils, Strumous
ophthalmia, with tumefaction of cervical glands and
stunted growth,

Relationship. — Compare: Acon. lycotonum (swelling
of cervical, axillary, and mammary glands). Lapis;
Con.; Merc. iod.; Carbo an.

Dose. _— Second and third trituration.

BARYTA MURIATICA
(Barium Chloride)

The different salts of Baryta are called for in or-
ganic lesions of the aged and dwarfish, both mentally
and physically. Arteriv-sclerosis and cerebral affec-
tions due to this condition. Headaches, but without
126 . BARYTA MURIATICA

acute crisis, occurring in old people; heaviness rather
than pain. Vertigo, due to cerebral anemia and noises
in ears. [Carficr.] Acts on lower alimentary canal, es-
pecially rectum; on muscles and joints, giving stiffness
and weakness as from overwalking. The white blood
corpuscles increased (leucocytosis). Increased tension
of pulse. Arterio-sclerosis [Aurum; Secale] where a
high systolic pressure with a comparatively low diastolic
tension is attended by cerebral and cardiac symptoms.

This remedy has indurated and narrowing of the
cardiac orifice with pain, immediately after eating, and
epigastric tenderness, which has been repeatedly veri-
fied, also its use in ancurism and chronic hyperthrophy
of the tonsils. Nymphomania and satyriasis, In every
form of mania when the sexual desire is increased. IJcy
coldness of body, with parclysis. Multiple sclerosis of
brain and cord. Voluntary muscular power gone but
perfecily sensible. Paresis after influenza and diph-
theria. General feeling of lassitude in the morning, es-
pecially weakness of the legs, with muscular stiffness.
Children who go around with their mouth open and
who talk through the nose. Stupid-appearing, hard of
hearing.

Ears. — Whizzing and buzzing. Noises on chewing
and swallowing, or sneezing. Earache; better sipping
cold water. Parotids swollen. Offensive otorrhcea, In-
flates middle ear on blowing nose.

Throat. — Difficult swallowing. Tonsils enlarged.
Paresis of pharynx and eustachian tubes, with sneez-
ing and noises. Tubes feel too wide open.

Respiratory. —- Bronchial affections af old people with
cardiac dilatation Facilitates expectoration. Great accu-
mulation and rattling of mucus with difficult expectora-
tion, Arterio-sclerosis of the lung, thus in senile asthma
modifies the arterial tension.
BARYTA MURIATICA — BELLADONNA 127

Stomach.— Gone feeling at epigastrium a good
guiding symptom for it in chronic affections. Retching
and vomiting. Sensation of heat ascending to head.

Urine. — Great increase in uric acid, diminution of
chlorides.

Abdomen, — Throbbing [Sclen.]; induration of pan-
creas; abdominal aneurism. Inguinal glands swollen.
Spasmodic pain in rectum,

Relationship. —- Compare in sclerotic degenerations,
especially of spinal cord, liver, and heart. Plumbum
met. and Plumb. iod. Also Aurum mur. (which will
often accomplish more in sclerotic and exudative de-
genetations than other remedies. Multiple sclerosis,
fulgurating pains, tremors, Morvan’s disease, -hyper-
trophy of fingers.)

Dose. — Third trituration.

BELLADONNA
(Deadly Nightshade)

Belladonna acts upon every part of the nervous sys-
tem, producing active congestion, furious excitement,
perverted special senses, twitching, convulsions and
pain. It has a marked action on the vascular system,
skin and glands. Belladonna always is associated with
hot, red skin, flushed face, glaring eyes, throbbing
carotids, excited mental state, hyperesthesia of all
senses, delirium, restless sleep, convulsive movements,
dryness of mouth and throat with aversion to water,
neuralgic pains that come and go suddenly. [Oxy-
tropis.] Heat, redness, throbbing and burning. Great ,
childrgn’s remedy, Epileptic spasms followed by nausea
and vomiting. Scarlet fever and also prophylactic.
Here use the thirtieth potency. Exophthalmic goitre.
128 BELLADONNA

Corresponds to the symptoms of “air-sickness” in
aviators, Give as preventive. No thirst, anxiety or
fear. Belladonna stands for violence of attack and
suddenness of onset. °

Mind. — Patient lives in a world of his own, en-
grossed by spectres and visions and oblivious to sur-
rounding realities, While the retina is insensihle to
actual objects, a host of visual hallucinations throng
about him and come to him from within. He is acutely
alive and crazed by a flood of subjective visual impres-
sions and fantastic illusions. Hallucinations ; sees
monsters, hideous faces. Delirium; frightful images ;
furious; rages, bites, strikes; desire to escape. Loss of
consciousness, Disinclined to talk. Perversity, with
tears. Acuteness of all senses.

Head. — Vertigo, with falling to left side or back-
wards. Sensitive to least contact. Much throbbing and
heat. Pain; fullness, especially in forehead, also occi-
put, and temples. Headache from suppressed catarrhal
flow. Sudden outcries. Pain worse light, noise, jar,
lying down and in afternoon; better by pressure and
semi-erect posture. Boring of head into pillow; drawn
backward and rolls from side to side. Constant moan-
ing. Hair splits; is dry and comes out. Headache
worse on right side and when lying down; from hav-
ing hair cut.

Face. — Red, hot, swollen, shining; convulsive motion
of muscles of face. Swelling of upper lip.

Eyes.-- Throbbing deep in eyes on lying down.
Pupils dilated. [Agnus.] Eyes feel swollen and pro-
truding, staring, brilliant; conjunctiva red; dry, burn:
,Photophobia; shooting in eyes. -Ocular illusions; fiery
appearance, Diplopie; squinting, spasms of lids , Sen-
sation as if eyes were half closed. Eyelids swollen.
Bundus congested.
BELLADONNA 129

Ears. — Tearing pain. Humming noises. Membrana
tympani bulges and injected. Parotid gland swollen.
Sensitive to loud tones. Hearing very acute. Otites
media, Pain causes delirium. Child cries out in sleep;
throbbing and beating pain deep in ear, synchronous
with heart beat.

Nose. — Imaginary odors. Tingling in tip of nose.
Red and swollen, Bleeding of nose, with red face.
Coryza; mucus mixed with blood,

Mouth, — Dry. Throbbing pain in teeth. Gumboil.
Tongue red on edges. Strawberry tongue. Grinding
of teeth, Tongue swollen and painful. Stammering.
[Stram.]

Throat. — Dry, as if glazed; angry-looking congestion
[Ginseng]; red, worse on right side, Tonsils enlarged ;
throat feels constricted; difficult dceylutition; worse,
liquids. Sensation of a iump. (Esophagus dry; feels
contracted. Spasms in throat. Continual ‘inclination to
swallow. Scraping sensation. Muscles of deglutition
very sensitive.

Stomach. — Loss of appetite. Averse to meat and
milk. Spasmodic pain in epigastrium. Constriction;
pain runs to spine. Nausea and vomiting. Great thirst
for cold water. Spasms of stomach. Empty retching.
Abhorrence of liquids. Spasmodic hiccough. Aversion
to water. Dread of drinking, Uncontrollable vomiting.

Abdomen. — Distended, hot. Transverse colon pro-
trudes like a pad. Tender, swollen. Pain as if clutched
by a hand; worse, jar, pressure. Cutting pain across;
stitches in left side of abdomen, when coughing, sneez-
ing, or touching it. Extreme sensitiveness to touch,
bed-clothes, etc. [Laches.]

Stools. — Thin, green, dysenteric; in lumps like chalk,
Shuddering during stool. Stinging pain in rectum;
130 BELLADONNA

spasmodic stricture. Piles more sensitive with back-
ache. Prolapsus ani. [/gnatia; Podoph.]

Urine. — Sensation of motion in bladder as of a
worm. Urine scanty, with tenesmus: dark and turbid,
loaded with phosphates. Vesical region sensitive. In-
continence, continuous dropping. Frequent and pro-
fuse.

Male. — Testicles hard, drawn up, inflamed. | Noc-
turnal sweat of genitals. Flow of prostatic fluid. De-
sire diminished.

Female. — Sensitive forcing downwards, as if all the
viscera would protrude at genitals. Dryness and heat
of vagina. Dragging around loins. Pain in sacrum.
Menses increased; bright red, too carly, too profuse.
Hemorrhage hot. Cutting pain from hip to hip.
Menses and lochia very offensive and hot. Labor-pains
come and go suddenly. Afastitis pain, throbbing, red-
ness, streaks radiate from nipple. Breasts fecl heavy;
are hard and red. Tumors otf breast, pain worse lying
down, Badly smelling hemorrhages, hot gushes of
blood. Diminished lochia.

Respiratory.— Drying in nose, fauces, larynx, and
trachea. Tickling, short, dry cough: worse at night.
Larynx feels sore. Respiration oppressed, quick, un-
equal. Cheyne-Stokes respiration [Cocuin; Opium.]
Hoarse; loss of voice. Painless hoarseness. Cough
with pain in left hip. Barking cough, whooping cough,
with pain in stomach before attack, with expectoration
of blood. Stitches in chest when coughing. Larynx
very painful; feels as if a foreign body were in it, with
cough. High, piping voice. Moaning at every breath.

Heart.— Violent palpitation, reverberating in head,
with labored breathing. Paipitation from least exer-
tion. Throbbing all through body. Dichrotism. Heart
eeemed too large. Rapid but weakened pulse.
BELLADONNA 131

Extremities. — Shooting pains along limbs. Joints
swollen, red, shining, with red streaks radiating. Tot-
tering gait. Shifting rheumatic pains. Phlegmasia alba
dolens. Jerking limbs. Spasms, Involuntary limping.
Cold extremities. ,

Back. — Stiff neck. Swelling of glands of neck. Pain
in nape, as if it would break. Pressure on dorsal

region most painful. Lumbago, with pain in hips and‘

thighs.

Skin. — Dry and fot; swollen, sensitive; burns, scar-
let, smooth, Eruption like searlatina, suddenly spread-
ing. Erythema; pustules on face. Glands swollen, ten-
der, red. Boils. Acne rosacea. Suppurative wounds.
(Atropia has the power of greatly increasing the pha-
gocytic activity of the leucocytes. )

Fever.— A high feverish state with comparative ab-
sense of toxemia Burning, pungent heat, Feet icy
cold. Superficial blood-vessels, distended. Perspiration
dry only on head. No thirst with fever.

Sleep. — Restless, crying out, gritting of teeth. Kept
awake by pulsation of blood-vessels, Screams out in
sleep, Sleeplessness, with drowsiness. Starting when
closing the eyes or during sleep. Sleeps with hands
under head. [Ars.; Plat.]

Modalities. — Worse, touch, jar, noise, draught, after
neon, lying down. Beiter, semi-erect.

Relationship. — Compare: /HIyos, (less fever, more
agitation) ; Stram. (more sensorial excitement, frenzy) ;
Hoitsia—A Mexican drug, similar in action to Bellad.
(Useful in fever, scarlatinal eruption, measles, urti-
caria, etc. High fever with eruptive fevers. Dry
mouth and throat, red face, injected eyes, delirium).
Calcar. is often required after Bell.; Atropia. (Great
dryness of throat, almost impossible to swallow. Al-
most identical in action, with accentuation of the nerv-
132 BELLADONNA — BELLIS PERENNIS

ous phenomena; chronic stomach affections, with great
pain and vomiting of all food. Peritonitis. All kind
of illusions of sight. Everything appears large. Platina
opposite.) | Hypochlorhydria; pyrosis. Motes over
everything. On reading, words run together; double
vision, all objects seem to be elongated. Eustachian
tube and tympanic congestion. Affinity for the pancreas,
Hyperacidity of stomach. Paroxysms of gastric pain.
3x.

Antidotes: Camph.; Coff.; Opium, Acon.

Complementary: Calc.

Incompatible: Acet. ac.

Dose. — First to thirtieth potency and higher. Must
be repeated frequently in acute diseases. ,

Non-Homeopathic Uses. — Atropia and its salts are
used for ophthalmic purposes, to dilate the pupil and
paralyze the accommodation.

Given internally or hypodermically, it is antagonistic
to Opium and Morphine. Physostigma and Prussic
Acid.

Atropia 1-20 gr. is antagonistic to 1 gr. Morphine.

Also used as a local anesthetic, antispasmodic, and
to dry up secretions, milk, etc.

Dose. — Atropia Sulph., 1-120 to 1-60 grain.

BELLIS PERENNIS
(Daisy)

It acts upon the muscular fibers of the blood-vessels.
Much muscular soreness. Lameness, as if sprained.
Venous congestion, due to mechanicai causes. [rst
remedy in injuries to the deeper tissues, after major
surgical work. Results of injuries to nerves with in-
tense soreness and intolerance of cold bathing. After
gout, debility of limbs. [Cyprip.]
132 BELLADONNA — BELLIS PERENNIS

ous phenomena; chronic stomach affections, with great
pain and vomiting of all food. Peritonitis. All kind
of illusions of sight. Everything appears large. Platina
opposite.) | Hypochlorhydria; pyrosis. Motes over
everything. On reading, words run together; double
vision, all objects seem to be elongated. Eustachian
tube and tympanic congestion. Affinity for the pancreas,
Hyperacidity of stomach. Paroxysms of gastric pain.
3x.

Antidotes: Camph.; Coff.; Opium, Acon.

Complementary: Calc.

Incompatible: Acet. ac.

Dose. — First to thirtieth potency and higher. Must
be repeated frequently in acute diseases. ,

Non-Homeopathic Uses. — Atropia and its salts are
used for ophthalmic purposes, to dilate the pupil and
paralyze the accommodation.

Given internally or hypodermically, it is antagonistic
to Opium and Morphine. Physostigma and Prussic
Acid.

Atropia 1-20 gr. is antagonistic to 1 gr. Morphine.

Also used as a local anesthetic, antispasmodic, and
to dry up secretions, milk, etc.

Dose. — Atropia Sulph., 1-120 to 1-60 grain.

BELLIS PERENNIS
(Daisy)

It acts upon the muscular fibers of the blood-vessels.
Much muscular soreness. Lameness, as if sprained.
Venous congestion, due to mechanicai causes. [rst
remedy in injuries to the deeper tissues, after major
surgical work. Results of injuries to nerves with in-
tense soreness and intolerance of cold bathing. After
gout, debility of limbs. [Cyprip.]
BELLIS PERENNIS 133

Traumatism of the pelvic organs, auto-traumatism,
expresses the condition calling for this remedy; ill ef-
fects from masturbation. Excellent remedy for sprains
and bruises. Complaints due to cold food or drink
when the body is heated, and in affections due to cold
wind, Externally, in nevi. Acne. Boils all over.
Sore, bruised feeling in the pelvic region. Exudations,
stasis, swelling, come within the range of this remedy.
Rheumatic symptoms. Does not vitiate the secretions.

Head. — Vertigo in elderly people. Headache from
occiput to top of head. Forehead feels contracted.
Bruised soreness, Itching around scalp and over back,
worse from hot bath and bed.

Female.— Breasts and uterus engorged. Varicose
veins in pregnancy. During pregnancy inability to walk.
Abdeminal muscles Jame. Utrrus feels sore, as tf
squeesed.

Sleep. — Wakes early in morning and cannot get to
sleep again.

Abdomen. — Soreness of abdominal walls and of
uterus, Stitches in spleen, sore, enlarged. Yellow,
painless diarrhoea, foul odor, worse at night. Bloated;
rumbling in bowels.

Skin. — Boils. Ecchymosis, swelling, very sensitive
to touch. Venous congestion due to mechanical causes.
Varicose veins with bruised sore feeling. Exudations
and swellings. Acne,

Extremities. — Joints sore, muscular soreness, Itch-
ing on back and flexor surfaces of thighs. Pain down
anterior of thighs. Wrist feels contracted as from
elastic band around joint. Sprains with great soreness.

Relationship. — Compare: Arnica; Arsenic; Staphis.>
Hamamelis; Bryonia; Vanadium (degeneratiye states),
134 BELLIS PERENNIS—BENZENUM

Modalities. — [orse, Icft side; hot bath and warmth
of bed; before storms. Better, cold; continued motion.
Dose. — Tincture to third potency,

BENZENUM
(Benzol, C6, H6)

The most striking fact in the proving of Benzol seems
to be the influence it had on the circulatory system. It
caused a slowing of the pulse stream which in the
guinea-pigs brought about the formation of infarcts.
In the human provers it resulted in a decrease of the
red and increase of white cells. (R. F. Rabe, M.D.)

It ought to be of use in Leucemia. Eye symptoms
striking.

Head.— Sense of falling through bed and _ floor.
Pains from below upward. , Tired and nervous.

Frontal headache to root of nose. Dizzy. Pressing
feeling in head.

Eyes. — Illusion of vision with wide open eyes.
Twitching of lids. Photophobia, objects blurred. Ach-
ing in eyes aud lids. Marked dilation of pupils. Fail-
ure to react to light, particularly daylight.

Nose. — Profuse fluent coryza. Especially in after-
noon. Violent sneezing.

Extremities. — Heavy limbs, cold legs, exaggerated
knee-jerk. Pains from below upward.

Skin, — Eruption like measles. Perspiration on side
not lain upon. Itching all over back,

Modalities. — Worse at night. Worse right side.

Dose. — Sixth potency.

Relationship. — Compare: Benzin. — Petroleum
ether — not as pure a compound as Benzene (Benzol).
It is the same. but with a mixture of hydrocarbons.
It seems to exercise a special influence on the nervous
system and on the blood. Oxyhaemoglobinemia.
BENZENUM—BENZOICUM ACIDUM 135

Physical weakness, cramps, exaggeration of knee jerks,
nausea, vomiting, dizziness, heaviness and coldness of
limbs. Tremor of eyelids and tongue. Bensin. dinitri-
cum —T). N, B.— The most obvious results of poison-
ing by skin absorption are changes in the red blood-
corpuscles and liver degeneration (in amblyopia, color-
blindness, retinitis. Field of vision contracted. Black
urine). Bensin, nitricum. Mirbane, Dark, black blood,
coagulates with difficulty; venous hyperemia of the
brain and general venous engorgement. Buruing taste
in mouth. Blue lips, tongue, skin, nails and conjunc-
tive. Cold skin, pulse small, weak, breathing slow
and irregular, unconsciousness, symptoms of apoplec-
tic coma. Rolling of eyeballs in their vertical axes;
pupils dilated. Nystagmus. Respiration very slow, dif-
ficult, sighing. Jrinitrotoluene (T. N. T.), Trotyl — is
a high explosive, obtained by nitrating toluene—a
product of coal tar distillation.

When the skin or hair is exposed to T. N. T. by
contact a charactcristic yellow or tawny-orange stain
is produced, which lasts for some weeks.

Produces fatal toxic jaundice.

Dose. — Third potency.

BENZOICUM ACIDUM
(Benzoic Acid)

The most marked characteristic pertains to the odor
and color of the urine. It has a marked action on
metabolism. It produces and cures symptoms of a
uric acid diathesis, with urine highly colored and very
offensive, and gouty symptoms. Child wants to be
nursed in the arms, will not be laid down. Pains sud-
denly change their locality, Antisycotic.

Mind. — Omits words in writing. Depression.
136 BENZOICUM ACIDUM

Head. — Throbbing in temporal arteries, causes puff-
ing around ears. Noises when swallowing. Ulcera-
tion of tongue. Swelling behind ears. [Caps.] Cold
sweat on forehead. Pricking, puckered constriction of
mouth, bluish and bleeding gums.

Nose. — Itching of septum. Pain in nasal bones.

Face. — Copper-colored spots. Red, with little blis-
ters. Circumscribed redness of cheeks.

Stomach. — Sweat while eating; pressure in stomach,
sensation of a lump.

Abdomen. — Cutting about navel. Stitching in liver
region.

Rectum. — Stitches and constricted feeling. Pucker-
ing constriction of rectum. Itching and watery eleva-
tions around anus.

Stool. —Frothy, offensive, liquid, light-colored, like
soapsuds, bowel movements mostly windy.

Urine. — Repulsize odor; changeable color; brown,
acid. Enuresis; dribbling urine of old men. Excess
of uric acid. Vesical catarrh from suppressed gonor-
rhoea.

Respiratory. — Hoarse in morning. Asthmatic cough ;
worse night; lying on right side. Chest very tender.
Pain in region of heart. Expectoration, green mucus.

Back.— Pressure on spinal coiumn. Coldness in
sacrum. Dull pain in region of kidneys; worse, wine.

Extremities. — Joints crack on motion. Tearing with
stitches, Pain in tendo Achillis. Rheumatic gout;
nodes very painful. Gouty deposits. Ganglion; swell-
ing of the wrist. Pain and swelling in knees. Bunion
of great toe. Tearing pain in great toe.

Fever.— Cold hands, feet, back, knees. Chilliness;
cold sweat. Internal heat on awakening.

Skin. — Red spots. Itching in spots.

Modalities. —- Worse, in open air; by. uncovering.
BENZOICUM ACID. — BERBERIS AQUI. — BERBERIS VUL. 137

Relationship. — Useful after Colchic., fails in gout;
after Copaiva in gonorrheea.

Compare: Nitric acid; Ammon, benz.; Sabina;
Tropeolum — Garden Nasturtium — (fetid urine).

Antidote: Copaiva.

Incompatible: Wine.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency.

BERBERIS AQUIFOLIUM
(Mountain Grape)

A remedy for the skin, chronic catarrhal affections,
secondary syphilis. Hepatic torpor, lassitude and other
evidences of incomplete metamorphosis.

Head. — Sensation of a band just above ears. Bilious
headache.

Face. — Blotches and pimples. [Cimicif.]

Stomach. — Tongue thickly coaced, yellowish-brown;
feels blistered. Burning in stomach. Nausea and hun-
ger after eating.

Urine. — Stitching, crampy pains; thick mucus, and
bright-red, mealy sediment,

Skin. — Pimply, dry, rough, scaly. Eruption on scalp
extending to face and neck. Tumor of breast, with
pain. Psoriasis. Acne. Dry Eczeia.

Relationship. — Carbol. acid.; Euonym.; Berb, vulg.;
Hydr,

Dose, — Tincture in rather material doses.

BERBERIS VULGARIS
(Barberry)

Rapid change of symptoms — pains change in regard
to place and character —thirst alternates with thirst-
lessness, hunger, and loss of appetite, etc.

, Hepatic, and rheumatic affections, particularly with
urinary, hemorrhoidal and menstrual complaints.
138 BERBERIS VULGARIS

Old gouty constitutions. Pain in region of kidneys
is most marked; hence its use in renal and vesical
troubles, gall-stones, and vesical catarrh. Pains may
be felt all over body, emanating from small of back.
It has also marked action on the liver, promoting the
flow_of bile. Often called for in arthritic affections
with urinary disturbances. Wandering, radiating pains.
Acts well in fleshy persons, good livers, but with little
endurance. All pains radiate.

Head. — Listless, apathetic, indifferent. Puffy sen-
sation, Feeling as if becoming larger. Vertigo with
attacks of fainting. Frontal headache. Chilliness in
hack and occiput. Tearing pain in auricle, and gouty
concretions, Sensation of a tight cap pressing upon the
whale scalp.

Face. — Pale, sickly. Sunken cheeks and eyes, with
bluish circles,

Mouth. — Sticky sensation. Diminished saliva. Sticky,
frothy saliva, like cotton. [Nur mosch.]

Stomach. — Nausea before breakfast. Heartburn.

Abdomen. — Stitches in region of gall-bladder ; worse,
pressure, extending to stomach. Catarrh of the gall-
bladder with constipation and yellow complexion.
Stitching pain in front of kidneys extending to liver,
spleen, stomach, groins, Poupart’s ligament. Sticking
deep in ilium.

Stool. — Constant urging to stvol. Diarrhoea painless,
clay-colored, burning, and smarting in anus and _ peri-
neum. Tearing around anus. Fistula in ano.

Urinary.— Burning pains. Sensation as if some
urine remained after urinating. Urine with thick
mucus and bright-red, mealy sediment. Bubbling, sore
sensation in kidneys. Pain in bladder region. Pain
in the thighs and loins on urinating. Frequent urina-«
tion; urethra burns when not urinating.
. BERBERIS VULGARIS 139

Male. — Neuralgia of spermatic cord and testicles.
Smarting, burning, stitching in testicles, in prepuce and
scrotum.

Female. — Pinching constriction in mons veneris,
vaginismus, contraction and tenderness of vagina.
Burning and soreness in vagina. Desire diminished,
cutting pain during coition. Menses scanty, gray mucus,
with pain in kidneys aid chilliness, pain down thighs.
Leucorrhoea ; grayish mucus, with painful urinary symp-
toms.

Respiratory. — Hoarseness; polypus of larynx. Tear-
ing stitches in chest and region of heart.

Back. — Stitches in neck and back; worse, respiration.
Sticking pain in region of kidneys radiating thence
around abdomen, to hips and groins. Numb, bruised
sensation. Stitches from kidneys into bladder. Tearing,
sticking with stiffness, making rising difficult, involving
hips, nates, limbs, with numbness. Lumbago. [Rhus;
Tart. em.] Metatarsus and metacarpus feel sprained.
Post-operative pain in lumbar region; soreness with
sharp pain following course of circumflex iliac nerve to
ladder with frequent urination.

Extremities. — Rheumatic paralytic pain in shoulders,
arms, hands and fingers, legs and feet. Neuralgia un-
der finger-nails, with swelling of finger-joints. Sensa-
tion of cold on outside of thighs. Heels pain, as if
ulcerated. Pain in balls of feet on stepping. Intense
weariness and lameness of legs after walking a short
distance.

Skin. — Flat warts. Jtching, burning and smarting;
worse, scratching; better, cold applications. Small pus-
tules over whole body. Eczema of anus and hands.
Circumscribed pigmentation following eczematous in-
- flammation,
140 BERBERIS VULGARIS—BETONICA’

Fever. — Cold sensation in various parts, as if spat-
tered with cold water. Warmth in lower part of back,
hips, and thighs.

Modalities. — Worse, motion, standing. It brings on,
or increases, urinary complaints.

Relationship.—Compare : Ipomea—Convolvulus Duar-
tinus—Morning Glory—Pain in left lumbar muscles
on stooping. Kidney disorders with pain in back.
Much abdominal flatulence. Aching in top of right
shoulder (renal colic; aching in small of back and
extremities), Aloc.; Lycopad.; Nux; Sarsap. NXan-
thorrhaa arborea (severe pain in kidneys, cystitis and
gravel. Pain from ureter to bladder and testicles;
pain in small of back returns from least chill or damp).
Mehonia aguifolium (chronic syphilis; eczema, acne,
pityriasis; headache, as of an iron band: better, coffee;
mountain fever). Xanthorrhica apifolia contains Ber-
berine. Dilatation of stomach and intestines, atony, en-
larged spleen.

Antidotes: Camphor; Bell.

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth potency.

BETONICA
(Betony Wood)

Produces pains in various parts

Head. — Stitches in right temple. Inability to con-
centrate mind.

Abdomen. — Pains in abdomen, hepatic region and of
transverse colon, also in gall-bladder and right in-
guinal region and spermatic cords.

Extremities. — Shooting pain in back of both wrist
joints. Wrist drops. Pain in right popliteal space
down leg, which feels paralyzed.
BISMUTHUM 141

BISMUTHUM
(Precipitated Sub-Nitrate of Bismuth)

Irritation and catarrhal inflammation of the alimen-
tary canal, is the chief action of this drug.

Mind. — Solitude is unbearable. Desire for company.
Complains about his condition. Anguish. Discontented.

Head. — Headache alternates with gastralgia. Neu-
ralgic pain, as if torn by pincers; involves face and
teeth; worse, eating; better, cold; alternate with gas-
tralgia. Cutting or pressure above right orbit extend-
ing to occiput. Pressure in occiput; worse, motion;
with heaviness,

Mouth. — Gums swollen, Toothache; better, cold
water in mouth. [Coff.] Tongue white. Swollen.
Black, gangrenous looking wedges on dorsum and sides
of tongue. Profase salivation, teeth loose. Thirst for
cold drinks.

Stomach. — Vomits, with convulsive gagging and
pain. [Vater is vomited as soon as it reaches the
stomach. Eructation after drinking. Vomits all fluids.
Burning; feeling of a load. Will eat for several days;
then vomit. Slow digestion, with fetid eructations.
Gastralgia; pain from stomach through to spine. Gas-
tritis. Better, cold drinks, but vomiting when stomach
becomes full.

Tongue coated white; sweetish, metallic taste. In-
expressible pain in stomach; must bend backwards.
Pressure as from a load in one spot, alternating with
burning, crampy pain and pyrosis.

Stool. — Painless diarrhcea, with great thirst, and fre-
quent micturition and vomiting. Pinching in lower
abdomen, with rumbling.

Respiratory. — Pinching in middle of diaphragm, ext
tending transversely through chest. Angina pectoris;
pain around heart, left arm to fingers. -TaAb,
142 nis. — BLATTA AMER. — BLATTA ORIEN, — BOLETUS

Extremities.— Cramps in hands and feet. Tearing
in wrist. Paralytic weakness, especially right arm.
Tearing in tips of fingers under nails. [Berb.] Itching
erosion near tibia and back of feet near joints. Cold
limbs.

Sleep. — Restless on account of voluptuous dreams.
Sleepy in morning, a few hours after eating.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Nux; Capsic.; Cale.

Compare: Antimon.; Ars.; Bellad.; Kreosot.

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

BLATTA AMERICANA
(Cockroach)

Ascites. Various forms of dropsy. Yellow com-
plexion. Extreme weariness. Pain in urethra on
urinating. Weariness on going upstairs.

Dose, — Sixth potency.

BLATYTA URIENTALIS
(Indian Cockroach)

A remedy for asthma,

Cough with dyspnaa in bronchitis and phthisis. Acts
best in stout and corpulent patients.

Dose, — Lowest potencies during an attack. After
the spasm, for the remaining cough, use the higher.

BOLETUS LARICIS— POLYPORUS
OFFICINALE
(White Agaric)

Quotidian intermittent fever. Sweat is light, and
without relief. Night-sweat in phthisis.

Head. — Feels light and hollow with deep frontal
headache. Thick, ‘yellow coating of tongue; teeth in-
dented. Constant nausea.

Fever. — Chilliness along spine, with frequent, hot-
142 nis. — BLATTA AMER. — BLATTA ORIEN, — BOLETUS

Extremities.— Cramps in hands and feet. Tearing
in wrist. Paralytic weakness, especially right arm.
Tearing in tips of fingers under nails. [Berb.] Itching
erosion near tibia and back of feet near joints. Cold
limbs.

Sleep. — Restless on account of voluptuous dreams.
Sleepy in morning, a few hours after eating.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Nux; Capsic.; Cale.

Compare: Antimon.; Ars.; Bellad.; Kreosot.

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

BLATTA AMERICANA
(Cockroach)

Ascites. Various forms of dropsy. Yellow com-
plexion. Extreme weariness. Pain in urethra on
urinating. Weariness on going upstairs.

Dose, — Sixth potency.

BLATYTA URIENTALIS
(Indian Cockroach)

A remedy for asthma,

Cough with dyspnaa in bronchitis and phthisis. Acts
best in stout and corpulent patients.

Dose, — Lowest potencies during an attack. After
the spasm, for the remaining cough, use the higher.

BOLETUS LARICIS— POLYPORUS
OFFICINALE
(White Agaric)

Quotidian intermittent fever. Sweat is light, and
without relief. Night-sweat in phthisis.

Head. — Feels light and hollow with deep frontal
headache. Thick, ‘yellow coating of tongue; teeth in-
dented. Constant nausea.

Fever. — Chilliness along spine, with frequent, hot-
ROLETUS LARICIS—-BORICUM ACIDUM 143

flashes. Yawns and stretches when chilly. Severe
aching in shoulders and joints and smal] of back. Pro-
fuse perspiration at night, with hectic chills and fever.

Skin. Hot and dry, especia!ly in palms. Itching
more between scapulz and on forearms.

Relationship. — Compare: Agaricin, active constituent
of Polyporus officinale (phthisical and other enervat-
ing night-sweats 1-4 to 1-2 gr. doses). Boletus luridus,
(Violent pain in epigastrium, urticaria tuberosa.)
Boletus satanus (dysentery).

Dose. — First attenuation.

BORICUM ACIDUM
(Boracic Acid)

Pain in region of ureters, with frequent urging to
urinate. Colducss. [Heloderm.] Diabetes, tongue dry,
red, and cracked.

Skin. — Multiform erythema of trunk and upper ex-
tremities. (Edema around eyes. Exfoliating dermatitis.

Female. — Climacteric flushings. [Lach.; Amyl. nit.]
Vagina cold, as if packed with ice. Frequent urination
with burning and tenesmus.

Dose. — Third trituration.

Non-Homeeopathic Uses. — When the diplococcus of
Weichselbaum is present in the sputum of pharyngitis
or bronchitis, pneumonia with tenacious sputum, hack-
ing cough and pain, five-grain doses six times daily. A
solution of Boracic Acid, as an injection, in chronic,
cystitis, or. a teaspoonful to a glass of hot milk, taken
internally. Boro-Glyceride in solution (1:40) is a
powerful antiseptic. Styes, 15 gr. to 1 oz. water ex-
ternally.
144 BORAX

BORAX
(Borate of Sodium)

Gastro-intestinal irritation. Salivation, nausea, vomit-
ing, colic, diarrhoea, collapse, albuminuria, casts and
vesical spasm. Delirium, visual changes, hematuria,
and skin eruptions have all been observed from over-
dosing.

Dread of downward motion in nearly all complaints.
For homeeopathic purposes, the peculiar nervous symp-
tums are very characteristic, and have frequently been
verified, especially in the therapeutics of children. Of
much value in epilepsy. Aphthous ulceration of mucous
membranes.

Mind,— Extreme anxiety, especially from motions
which have a downward direction, rocking, being car-
ried downstairs, laid down Anxious expression of face
during the downward motions, starts and throws up
hands on laying patient down, as if afraid of falling.
Excessively nervous, casily frigtcned. Sensitive to
sudden noises. Violent fright from report of a gun,
even at a distance. Fear of thunder.

Head. — Aches, with nausea and trembling of whole
body. Hair tangled at tips, cannot be separated, as in
Plica Polonica. [Vinca min.]

Eyes.— Lashes turn inward. Visions of bright
waves. Eyelids inflamed, lids cut against eyeball. En-
tropium.

Ears. — Very sensitive to slightest noise, not so much
disturbed by louder ones.

Nose. — Red nose, of young women. Red and shin-
ing swelling, with throbbing and tensive sensation. Tip
swollen and ulcerated Day crusts.

Face. Pale, earthy, with suffering expression.
Swollen, with pimples on nose and lips. Feeling of
cobwebs.
BORAX 145

Mouth. — Aphthe. Mouth hot and tender; ulcers
bleed on touch and eating. Painful gumbpil. Crying
when nursing. Taste bitter. [Bry.; Puls.; Cup.}
Taste of “cellar mould.”

Stomach and Abdomen. —: Distention after eating;
vomiting. Gastralgia, depending upon uterine disturb-
ance. Pain as if diarrhoea would result.

Stool. — Loose, pappy, offensive stools in children.
Diarrhoea, offensive, preceded by colic; stools mucus,
with aphthous sore mouth,

Urine. — Hot, smarting pain in orifice. Pungent
smell. Child afraid to urinate. screams before urinat-
ing. [Sarsap.]

Female. — Labor pains with frequent eructations.
Galacto?rhaa. [Cal.; Con.; Bell.] In nursing, pain in
opposite breast. Leucorrhoea like white of eggs, with
sensation as if warm water was flowing. Menses too
soon, profuse, with griping, nausea and pain in stomach
extending into small of back. Membranous dyvsmenor-
rhaa. Sterility. Favors easy conception. Sensation of
distention in clitoris with sticking.

Respiratory. — Hacking and violent cough; expec-
toration, mouldy taste and smell. Stitches in chest,
with inspiration and cough. Cough with mouldy taste
—pbreath smells mouldy. Pleurodynia; worse upper
part of right chest. Arrest of breathing when lying;
is obliged to jump up and. catch breath, which causes
pain in right side. Out of breath on ‘going up stairs.

Extremities. — Feeling as of cobwebs on_ hands.
Itching on back of finger-joints and hands. Throbbing
pain in tip of thumb. Stitches in sole. Burning pain
in great toe; inflammation of balls of toes. Eczema
of toes and fingers with loss of nails,

Skin. — Erysipelas in face. Itching on back of fin-
ger-joints. Unhealthy skin; slight injuries suppurate.
146 BORAX — BOTHROPS LANCIOLATUS

Herpes. [Khus.] Erysipelatous inflammation with
swelling and tension. Chilblains relieved in open air.
Trade eruptions on fingers and hands, itching and
stinging. Ends of hair become tangled.

Sleep. — Voluptuous dreams. Cannot sleep on ac-
count of heat, especially in head. Cries out of sleep
as if frightened. [Bell.]

Modalities. — Jiorse, downward motion, noise, smok-
ing, warm weather, after menses.

Better, pressure, evening, cold weather.

Relationship. — Acetic acid, vinegar, and wine are
incompatible.

Antidote: Cham.; Coffea.

Compare: Cale.; Bryon.; Sanicula; Sulph, ac,

Dose. — First to third trituration. In skin diseases
continue its use for several weeks. A piece of borax,
the size of a pea, dissolved in the mouth, acts magically
in restoring the vnice in cases of sudden hoarseness
brought on by cold, and frequently for an hour or so,
it renders the voice silvery and clear.

BOTHROPS LANCIOLATUS. — LACHESIS
LANCIOLATUS
(Yellow Viper)

Broken-down, haemorrhagic constitutions; septic
states. Great lassitude and sluggishness; haemorrhages
from every orifice of the body; black spots. Hemi-
plegia with aphasia. Inability to articulate, without any
affection of the tongue. Nervous trembling. Pain in
right big toe. Diagonal course of symptoms. Pul-
monary congestion.

Eyes. —- Hemouralopia, day blindness, can hardly see
her way after sunrise; conjunctivial hemorrhage.

Face. — Swollen and puffy. Besotted expression.
BOTIIROPS LANCIOLATUS — BOVISTA 147

Throat. — Red, dry, constricted; swallowing difficult,
cannot pass liquids.

Stomach. — Epigastric distress. Black vomiting. In-
tense hamatemesis. Tympanitis and bloody stools.

Skin. — Swollen, livid, cold with hemorrhagic infil-
tration. Gangrene. Lymphatics swollen. Anthrax.
Malignant erysipelas.

Modalities. — Worse, right side.

Relationship. — Compare:  Toxicophis.. Moccasin
Snake (pain and fever recur annually, after bite from
this snake, and sometimes change location with disap-
pearance of first symptoms. An unusual dryness ot
skin follows the bite. C&dematous swellings and peri-
odical neuralgia. Other snake poisons, notably
Lachesis Trachinus,—Stingfish (intolerable pains,
swelling, acute blood poisoning, gangrene.) .

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

BOVISTA
(Puff-Ball)

Has a marked effect on the skin, producing erup-
tion like eczema, also upon the circulation, predisposing
to haemorrhages; marked Janguor and _lassitude.
Adapted to stammering children, old maids with pal-
Pitation, and “tettery” patients. Stage of numbness
and tingling in multiple neuritis,

Mind. — Enlarged sensation. [Arg. n.] Awkward;
everything falls from his hands. Sensitive.

Head. — Sensation as if fread were enlarging, espe-
cially of occiput. Distensive headache; worse early
morning, open air, lying. Discharge from nose stringy,
tough. Dull, bruised pain in brain. Stammering.
[Stram.; Merc.] Scalp itches; worse, warmth; sensi-
tive; must scratch until sore.
148 BOVISTA

Face. — Scurf and crusts about nostrils and corners
of mouth. Lips chapped. Bleeding of nose and gums.
Cheeks and lips feel swollen. Acne worse in summer ;
due to use of cosmetics.

Stomach. — Sensation as of a lump of ice. Intoler-
ant of tight clothing around waist.

Female.— Diarrhea before and during menses.
Menses too early and profuse; worse at night. Volup-
tuous sensation. Leucorrhcea acrid, thick, tough, green-
ish, follows menses. Cannot bear tight clothing around
waist [Lach.]. Traces of menses between menstrua-
tion. Soreness of pubes during menses.

Abdomen. — Colic, with red urine; relieved by eat-
ing. Must bend double. Pain around umbilicus. Stitches
through perineum towards rectum and genitals.

Stool.— Chronic diarrhoea of old people; worse at
night and early morning. Diarrhoea before and during
menstruation.

Extremities. -- Great weakness of all joints; clumsi-
ness with her hands, drops things from hands. Weari-
ness of hands and feet. Sweat in axilla; onion smell.
Tip of coccyx# itches intolerably. Moist eczema on back
of hand. Itching of feet and legs. CEdema in joints
after fracture.

Skin. — Blunt instruments leave deep impression on
the skin. Urticaria on excitement, with rheumatic
lameness, palpitation and diarrhoea. [Dulc.] Itching
on getting warm. Eczema, moist; formation of thick
crusts. Pimples cover the entire body; scurvy; her-
petic eruptions, Pruritus ani. Urticaria on waking in
the morning, worse from bathing. Pellagra.

Relationship. — Bovista antidotes tar applications.
Suffocation from gas. After Rhus in chronic urticaria.

‘Compare: Calc.; Rhus; Sepia; Cicuta.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency.
BRACHYGLOTTIS—BRANCA URSINA 149

BRACHYGLOTTIS
(Puka-Puka)

Fluttering sensation. Kidney and bladder symptoms
predominate. Produces symptoms of albuminuria.
Itching in ears and nostrils. Bright's disease. Oppres-
sion of chest. Writer’s cramp.

Abdomen. — Feeling as if something ‘rolling about.
Fluttering in region of ovary.

Urinary. -- Pressure in neck of bladder; urging to
urinate. Sense of swashing in bladder. Soreness in
urethra; feeling as if urine could not be retained.
Urine contains mucous corpuscles and epithelium, albu-
men and casts.

Extremities. — Cramp in fingers, thumb, and wrist
when writing — soreness extending along flexor carpi
ulnaris.

Relationship. -— Compare: Apis; Helonias; Merc.
cor.; Plumbum.

Dose. — Third potency.

BRANCA URSINA
(Heracleum-Hogweed

Headache, gouty and skin symptoms.

Head. Aches with drowsiness; worse moving in
open air. Seborrheza capitis.

Extremities. — Gouty tearing in limbs. Burning pain
in feet.

Female. — Fluttering in right ovary and abdomen.
Dysmenorrheea. .

Relationship. — Compare: Berberis; Apis.

Dose. — Third attenuation.
150 BROMIUM

BROMIUM
(Bromine)

Most marked effects are seen in the respiratory
symptoms, especially in larynx and trachea. It seems
to affect especially scrofulous children with enlarged
glands. Blond type. Enlarged parotid and goitre.
Tendency to spasmodic attacks. Left-sided mumps.
Sense of suffocation; excoriating discharges. profuse
sweats and great weakness. Complaints from being
over-heated. Tendency to, infiltrate glands, become
hard, but seldom suppurate.

Mind. — Delusion that strange persons are looking
over patient’s shoulder and that she would see some
one on turning.

Head. — Megrim of left side; worse stooping, espe-
cially after drinking milk. Headache: worse heat of
sun and by rapid motion. Sharp pain through eyes.

Nose. — Coryza, with corrosive soreness of nose.
Stoppage of right nostril. Pressure at root of nose.
Tickling, smarting, as from cobwebs, Fan-like motion
of ale. [Lyc.] Bleeding from nose relieving the chest.

Throat. --- Throat feels raw, evening, with hoarse-
ness. Tonsils pain on swallowing, deep red, with net-
work of dilated blood vessels. Tickling in trachea dur-
ing inspiration. Hoarseness coming on from being over-
heated.

Stomach and Abdomen.— Sharp burning from
tongue to stomach. Pressure as of stone. Gastralgia;
better eating. Tympanitic distention of abdomen. Pain-
ful hemorrhoids, with black stool.

Respiratory. — Whooping cough. (Use persistently
for about ten days.) Dry cough, with hoarsencss and
burning pain behind sternum. Spasmodie cough, with
rattling of mucus in the larynx; suffocative. Hoarse-
BROMIUM 151

ness. Croup after febrile symptoms have subsided.
Difficult and painful breathing. Violent cramping of
chest. Chest pains run upward. Cold sensation when
inspiring. Every inspiration provokes cough. Laryn-
gcal diphtheria; membrane begins in larynx and spreads
upward. Spasmodic constriction. Asthma; better at
sea, of seafaring men when they come on land. Hy-
pertrophy of heart from gymnastics. [Rhus.]

Male. — Swelling of testicles. Indurated, with pains
worse slight jar.

Female. — Swelling of ovaries. Menses too early;
too profuse, with membranous shreds. Low spirited
before menses. Tumor in breasts, with stitching pains;
worse left. Stitch pains from breast to axillz. Sharp
shooting pain in left breast, worse pressure.

Sleep. — Full of dreams; jerking and starting dur-
ing sleep, full of fantasy; trembling and weak on
awaking.

Skin. — Acne, pimples and pustules. Boils on arms
and face. Glands stony, hard, especially on lower jaw
and throat. Hard goitre. [Spong.]

Modalities. — Worse, from evening, until midnight,
and when sitting in warm room; warm damp weather.
Better, from any motion; exercise; at sea. .

Relationship. — Antidotes: Ammon. carb.; Camph.
Salt inhibits the action of Brom.

Compare: Conium; Spongia; Iod.; Aster.; Arg. nit.
Avoid milk when taking Brom. Hydrobromic acid.
(Throat dry and puckering; constriction in pharynx
and chest; waves of heat over face and neck; tinnitus;
vertigo, palpitation; arms heavy; seemed as if parts
did not belong to him. Seems to have a specific effect
on the inferior cervical ganglion, increasing the tonic
action of the sympathetic, thls promoting vaso-con-
152 BROMIUM—BRYONIA

striction. Relieves headache, tinnitus and vertigo, es-
pecially in vaso-motor stomach disturbance. Dose, 20
minims. )

Dose. — First to third attenuation. Must be prepared
fresh, as it is liable to rapid deterioration.

BRYONIA
(Wild Hops)

Acts on all serous membranes and the viscera they
contain. The general character of the pain here pro-
duced is a stitching, tearing; worse by motion, better
rest. These characteristic stitching pains, greatly ag-
gravated by any motion, are found everywhere, but es-
pecially in the chest; worse pressure. Mucous mem-
branes are all dry. The Bryonia patient is irritable;
has vertigo from raising the head, pressive headache ;
dry, parched lips, mouth; excessive thirst, bitter taste,
sensitive epigastrium, and feeling of a stone in the
stomach; stools large, dry, hard; dry cough: rheumatic
pains and swellings; dropsical effusions into synovial
and serous membranes.

Bryonia affects especially the constitution of a ro-
bust, firm fiber and dark complexion, with tendency to
leanness and frritability. It prefers the right side, the
evening, and open air, warm weather after cold days,
to manitest its action most markedly.

Children dislike to be carried or raised. Physical
weakness, all-pervading apathy. Complaints apt to de-
velop slowly.

Mind. — Exceedingly irritable; everything puts him
out of humor. Delirium; wants tu go home; talks of
business. -

Head. — Vertigo, nausea, faintness on rising, con-
fysion. Bursting, splitting headache, as if everything
152 BROMIUM—BRYONIA

striction. Relieves headache, tinnitus and vertigo, es-
pecially in vaso-motor stomach disturbance. Dose, 20
minims. )

Dose. — First to third attenuation. Must be prepared
fresh, as it is liable to rapid deterioration.

BRYONIA
(Wild Hops)

Acts on all serous membranes and the viscera they
contain. The general character of the pain here pro-
duced is a stitching, tearing; worse by motion, better
rest. These characteristic stitching pains, greatly ag-
gravated by any motion, are found everywhere, but es-
pecially in the chest; worse pressure. Mucous mem-
branes are all dry. The Bryonia patient is irritable;
has vertigo from raising the head, pressive headache ;
dry, parched lips, mouth; excessive thirst, bitter taste,
sensitive epigastrium, and feeling of a stone in the
stomach; stools large, dry, hard; dry cough: rheumatic
pains and swellings; dropsical effusions into synovial
and serous membranes.

Bryonia affects especially the constitution of a ro-
bust, firm fiber and dark complexion, with tendency to
leanness and frritability. It prefers the right side, the
evening, and open air, warm weather after cold days,
to manitest its action most markedly.

Children dislike to be carried or raised. Physical
weakness, all-pervading apathy. Complaints apt to de-
velop slowly.

Mind. — Exceedingly irritable; everything puts him
out of humor. Delirium; wants tu go home; talks of
business. -

Head. — Vertigo, nausea, faintness on rising, con-
fysion. Bursting, splitting headache, as if everything
BRYONIA 153

would be pressed out; worse from motion, stooping,
opening eyes. Headache becomes seated in occiput.
Drawing in bones towards zygoma. Headache; worse
on motion, even of eyeballs.

Nose. — Frequent bleeding of nose when menses
should appear. Coryza with shooting and aching in the
forehead. Swelling of tip of nose, feels as if it would
ulcerate when touched.

Ears. —— Aural vertigo. [ Aur.; Nat. sal.; Sil.; Chin.]
Roaring, buzzing.

Eyes. — Pressing, crushing, aching pain. Glaucoma.
Sore to touch and when moving them.

Mouth. — Lips parched, dry, cracked. Dryness of
mouth, tongue, and throat, with excessive thirst.
Tongue coated yellowish, dark brown; heavily white in
gastric derangement. Bitter taste. [Nux; Col.] Burn-
ing in lower lip in old smokers. Lip swollen, dry, black
and cracked.

Throat —- Dryness, sticking on swallowing, scraped
and constricted. [Fell.] Tough mucus in larynx and
trachea, loosened only after much hawking; worse
coming into warm room.

Stomach.— Nausea and faintness when rising up.
Abnormal hunger, loss of taste. Thirst for large
draughts. Vomiting of bile and water immediately
after eating. Worse, warm drinks, which are vomited.
Stomach sensitive to touch. Pressure in stomach after
cating, as of a stone. Soreness in stomach when cough-
ing. Dyspeptic ailments during summer heat. Sensi-
tiveness of epigastrium to touch. ;

Abdomen. — Liver region swollen, sore, tensive.
Burning pain, stitches; worse, pressure, coughing,
breathing. Tenderness of abdominal walls,

Stool. — Constipation; stools hard, dry, as if burnt;
seem too large. Stools brown, thick, bloody; worse in
154 BRYONIA

morning, from moving, in hot weather, after being
heated, from cold drinks, every spell of hot weather.

Urine. — Red. brown, like beer; scanty, hot.

Female. — Menses too carly, too profuse; worse from
motion, with tearing pains in legs; suppressed, with
vicarious discharge, or splitting headache. Stitching
pains in ovaries on taking a deep inspiration; very sen-
sitive to touch. Pain in right ovary as if torn, extend-
ing to thigh. [Lilium; Croc.) Milk fever. Pain in
breasts at menstrual period. Breasts hot and painful,
hard. Abscess of mamme. Frequent bleeding of nose
at appearance of menses. Menstrual irregularities, with
gastric symptoms. Ovaritis. Intermenstrual pain, with
great abdominal and pelvic soreness. [Ham.]

y Respiratory.— Soreness in larynx and _ trachea.
Hoarseness; worse in open air. Dry, hacking cougly
froin irritation in upper trachea. Cough, dry, at night;
must sit up; worse after cating or drinking, with vomit-
ing, with stitches in chest, and expectoration of rust-
colored sputa. Frequent desire to take a long breath;
must expand lungs. Difficult, quick respiration; worse
every movement; caused by stitches in chest. Cough,
with feeling as if chest would fly to pieces; presses his
head on sternum; must support chest. Croupous and
pleuro-pneumonia. Expectoration brick shade, tough,
and falls like lumps of jelly. Tough mucus in trachea,
loosened only with much hawking. Coming into warm
room exeiles cough. [Nat. carb.] Heaviness beneath
the sternum extending towards the right shoulder.

Back. — Painfulness stiffness in nape of neck. Stitches
and stiffness in small of back,

Extremities. — Knees stiff and painful. Hot swelling
of feet. Joints red, swellen, hot, with stitches and
tearing ; worse on least movement. Every spot is pain-
BRYONIA — BUFO 155

ful on pressure. Constant motion of left arm and leg.
[Helleb.] ,

Fever. — Easy, profuse perspiration. Rheumatic and
typhoid marked by gastro-hepatic complications.

Skin.— Yellow; pale, swollen, dropsical; hot and
painful. Seborrhoea oleasa. Hair very greasy.

Sleep. — Drowsy; starting when falling asleep. De-
lirium; busy with business matters and what he had
read,

Fever. — Pulse full, hard, tense, and quick. Chill with
external coldness, dry cough, stitches. Internal heat.
Sour sweat after slight exertion.

Relationship. — Complementary: Upas when Bryonia
fails. Rhus; Alumina, Illecebrum.— A Mexican drug.
—(Fever with catarrhal symptoms, gastric and typhoid
fever symptoms.)

Antidotes: Acon.; Chant; Nux.

Compare: Asclep. tub.; Kali mur.; Ptelia,

Modalities. — Worse, warmth, any motion, morning,
eating, hot weather, exertion, touch. Cannot sit up;
gets faint and sick. Better, lying on painful side, pres-
sure, rest, cold things.

Dose. — First to twelfth attenuation.

BUFO
(Poison of the Toad)

Acts on the nervous system and skin.

Arouses the lowest passions. Causes a desire for
intoxicating drink, and produces impotence.

Of use in feeble-minded children. Prematurely se-
nile. Epileptic symptoms, more or less cunnected with
derangements of the sexual sphere, seem to come within
the range of this remedy. Injuries to fingers; pain
runs in streaks up the arms.
156 BUFO

Mind.— Propensity to bite. Howling: impatient;
nervous; imbecile. Desire for solitude. Feeble-minded.

Head. — Sensation as if hot vapor rose to top of head.
Numbness of brain. Face bathed in sweat.

Eyes. — Cannot bear sight of brilliant objects. Lit-
tle blisters form on eye.

Ears. — Music is unbearable. [Ambra.] Every little
noise distresses.

Heart.— Feels too large. Palpitation. Constriction
about heart.

Female, — Menses too early, watery leucorrheea. Ex-
citement, with epileptic attacks. Epilepsy at time of
menses. Induration in mammary glands. Palliative in
cancer of the mammz. Burning in ovaries and uterus.
Ulceration of cervix. Offensive bloody discharge.
Pains run into legs. Bloody milk. Milk-leg. Veins
swollen.

Male. — Involuntary emissions: wnpotence, discharge
too quick, spasms during coition. Buboes. Disposition
to handle organs. [Hyos.; Zinc.]

Skin.— Panaritum; pain runs up arm. Patches of
skin lose sensation. Pustules, suppuration from every
slight injury. Pemphigus. Bulle which open and leave
a raw surface, exuding an ichorous fluid. Blisters on
palms and soles. Itching and burning. Carbuncle.

Relationship.— Compare: Baryt. carb.; Astcrias;
Salamand, (Epilepsy and softening of brain.)

Antidotes: Laches.; Seneg.

Complementary : Salamandra.

Modalities. — Worse, in warm room, on awakening.
Better, from bathing or cold air; from putting feet in
hot water.

Dose. — Sixth potency and higher.
BUTYRIC ACID — CACTUS GRANDIFLORUS 157

BUTYRIC ACID
(A volatile acid obtained chiefly from butter)

Head. — Worries over trifles; impulsive thoughts of
suicide; constant state of fear and nervousness. Head-
ache makes him apprehensive about trifles; worse go-
ing upstairs or rapid motion. Dull, hazy ache of head.

Stomach. —- Poor appetite. Much gas in stomach and
bowels. Cramps in pit of stomach, worse at night.
Stomach feels heavy and overloaded. Cramp in abdo-
men below umbilicus. Bowels irregular. Stool accom-
panied by pain and straining.

Back. — Tired feeling and dull pain in small of back,
worse walking. Pain in ankles and up back of leg.
Pain low down in back and extremities.

Sleep. — Pronounced sleeplessness; dreams of serious
nature while, asleep.

Skin. — Perspiration on slight exertion. Profuse, of-
fensive sweat of feet. Crumbling away of finger-nails.

Modalities. — Worse, at night, fast walking, going up-
stairs.

Dose. — Third attenuation.

CACTUS GRANDIFLORUS
(Night-blooming Cereus)

Acts on circular muscular fibers, hence constrictions.
It is the heart and arteries especially that at once re-
spond to the influence of Cactus, producing very char-
acteristic constrictions, as of an iron band. This sen-
sation is found in various places, cesophagus, bladder,
etc. The mental symptoms produced correspond to
those found when there are heart affections, sadness,
158 CACTUS GRANDIFLORUS

and melancholy. Jla@morrhage, constrictions, period-
icity, and spasmodic pains. Whole body feels as if
caged, each wire being twisted tighter. Atheromatous
arteries and weak heart. Congestions; irregular dis-
tribution of blood. Favors formation of clots specdily.

Mind. — Melancholy, taciturn, sad, ill-humored. Fear
of death. Screams with pain.

Head. — Headache if obliged to pass dinner hour.
[.4rs.; Lach.; Lyc.] Sensation as of a weight on ver-
tex. Right-sided pulsating pain. Congestive head-
aches, periodical, threatening apoplexy. Blood-vessels
to the head distended. Feels as if head were com-
pressed in a vise. Pulsation in ears. Dim sight. Right-
sided prosopalgia, constricting pains, returns at same
hour daily. [Ccdron.]

Nose. — Profuse bleeding from nose. Fluent coryza.

Throat.— Constriction of cesophagus. Dryness of
tongue, as if burnt; needs much liquid to get food
down. Suffocative constriction at throat, with full,
throbbing carotids in angina pectoris.

Stomach, — Constriction, pulsation, or heaviness in
stomach. Vomiting of blood.

Stool. — Hard, black stools. Diarrhoea in morning.
Hemorrhoids swollen and painful. Sensation of great
weight in anus. Hemorrhage from bowels in malarial
fevers and with heart symptoms,

Urine, — Constriction of neck of bladder, causing re-
tention of urine. Hamorrhage from bladder. Clots of
blood in urethra. Constant urination.

Female. — Constriction in uterine region and ovaries.
Dysmenorrhwa; pulsating vpain in uterus and ovaries.
Vaginismus. Menses early, dark, pitch-like. [Cocc.;
Mag. ¢.]; cease on lying down, with heart symptoms.
CACTUS GRANDIFLORUS 159

Chest. — Oppressed breathing as from a weight on
chest. Constriciion in chest, as if bound, hindering res-
piration, Inflammation of diaphragm. JJcart-constric-
tion, as from an iron band. Angina pectoris. Palpita-
tion; pain shooting down left arm. Hzmoptysis, with
corivulsive, spasmodic cough. Diaphragmitis, with great
difficulty of breathing.

Heart. -- Endocarditis with mitral insufficiency to-
gether with violent and rapid action. Acts best in the
incipiency of cardiac incompetence. Heart weakness
of arteriosclerosis. Violent palpitation; worse lying on
left side, at approach of menses. Angina pectoris; with
suffocation, cold sweat, and ever-present iron-band feel-
ing. Pain in apex, shooting down left arm. Palpitation,
with vertigo, dyspnoea, flatulence. Consiriction; very
acute pains and stitches in heart; pulse feeble, irregular.
Endocardial murmurs, excessive impulse, increased
precordial dullness, enlarged ventricle.

Extremities. — Cedema of hands and feet. Hands
soft; feet enlarged. Numbness of left arm. Icy-cold
hands. Restless legs.

Sleep. — Sleepless on account of pulsation in different
parts of body. Frightful dreams.

Fever. — Fever every day at same hour. Coldness
in back and icy-cold hands. Intermittent; paroxysms
about midday (11 a.m.) incomplete in their stages,
accompanied by hemorrhages. Coldness predominates;
cold sweat, with great anguish.

Modalities. — Worse, lying on left side; walking, go-
ing upstairs, 11 a. Mm, and 11 p.m. Better, open air.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Acon.; Camph.; China.

Compare: Digital.; Spigel.; Convallar.; Kalmia;
Naja; Magnol.

Dose. — Tincture, to third attenuation. Higher in
nervous palpitation.
160 CADMIUM SULPH.

CADMIUM SULPH.
(Cadmic Sulphate)

Its pathogenesis gives symptoms corresponding to
very low forms of disease, as in cholera, yellow fever,
where, with exhaustion, vomiting, and extreme prostra-
tion, the disease runs deathward. Important gastric
symptoms.

The attack is upon the stomach more especially. Pa-
tients must keep quiet. Chilliness and coldness even
when near the fire.

Mind and Head. — Unconscious. Vertigo; room and
bed seem to spin around. Hammering in head. Heat
in head,

Nose. — Osena. Tightness at root. Nose obstructed;
polypus. Caries of nasal bones. Boils on nose. Nos-
trils ulcerated.

Eyes. — Opacity of cornea. Blue circle around eyes.
One pupil dilated. Night blindness.

Face. — Distortion of mouth. Trembling of jaw.
Facial paralysis; more left side.

Mouth. — Difficult swallowing. Csophagus  con-
stricted. [Bapt.] Salty belching. Intense nausea, with
pain and cold, Stringy, offensive exudation on mucous
membrane. Salty taste.

Throat. — Sore throat, constant tickling; gagging and
nausea, worse deep breathing; chilliness and aching.

Stomach. — Soreness in pit of stomach on pressure.
Violent nausea; retching. Black vomit. Vomiting of
mucus,.green slime, blood, with great prostration, and

p@etat tenderness over the stomach. Burning and cut-
ting pains in stomach. Carcinoma, helps the persistent
vomiting. Coffee ground vomiting.

Abdomen. — Sore, tender, tympanitic. Region of liver
CADMIUM SULPH. — CAHINCA 161

sore. Coldness. Black, offensive clots of blood from
bowels. Pain in abdomen, with vomiting. Tenderness
and tympanites.

Stool. — Gelatinous stools. Bloody, black, and of-
fensive. Gelatinous, yellowish green; semi-fluid, with
urinary suppression.

Urine.— Rawness and soreness in urethra, urine
mixed with pus and blood.

Heart. — Palpitation, with constriction of chest.

Fever. — Icy coldness. [Camph.; Verat.; Heloderm.]
Yellow fever. [Crotalus; Carbo.]

Skin. — Blue, yellow, sallow, scaly, cracking. Itch-
ing; better scratching. Chloasma, yellowish stains on
nose and cheeks; worse exposure to sun and wind.
Chilblains.

Sleep. — Stops breathing on going to sleep. Wakes
up suffocating. Fears to go to sleep again. Protracted
sleeplessness.

Modalities. — }i’orse, walking or carrying burdens;
after sleep; from open air, stimulants. Better, eating
and rest.

Relationship. —- Compare: Cadmium oxide; Cad.
brom. (pain and burning in stomach, and vomiting) ;
Cadmium jodat. (Itching of anus and rectum felt dur-
ing the day only; constipation, frequent desire, tenes-
mus, abdomen bloated) ; Zinc., Ars.; Carbo; Verat.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

CAHINCA ;
(Brazilian Plant — Chiococca)

This remedy has been found of use in dropsical af-
fections. Its urinary symptoms are well marked. Al-
buminuria, with dyspnoea on lying down at night.
Ascites and anasarca, with dry skin.
162 CAHINCA — CAJUPUTUM

Urinary.— Constant desire to urinate. Polyuria
while traveling. Urine fiery. Burning pain in urethra,
especially glandular portion.

Male. — Drawing in of testicles and spermatic cord.
Pain worse during passage of pungent smelling urine.

Back. — Pain in region of kidneys; better lying bent
backward. General fatigue.

Relationship. — Compare: Apocyn.; <Ars.; Coffea
(similar botanically and in relieving effects of fatigue).

Dose. — Third potency or lower.

CAJUPUTUM (OLEUM WITTNEBIANUM)
(Cajuput Oil)

Acts like Oil of Cloves. A remedy for flatulence and
affections of the tongue. Sense of enlargement. Causes
copious diaphoresis. Retrocedent gout. Neuralgic af-
fections not inflammatory. Nervous dyspneea.

Head. -- Feels much enlarged. As if he could not get
himself together. [Baptisia.]

Mouth. — Persistent sensation of choking. Spasmodic
stricture of @sophayus. Constricted sensation on swal-
lowing solid food. Tongue feels swollen, fills whole
mouth,

Stomach.—Hiccough, on slightest provocation.

Abdomen. — Flatulent colic; tympanites. [Terebd.]
Nervous distention of bowels. Urine smells like cat’s
urine. Spasmodic cholera.

Modalities. — Worse, about 5 a.M.; night.

Relationship. — Compare: Bovist.; Nux  mosch.;
Asaf.; Ign.; Bapt. :

Dose. -- First to third potency. - (5 drops of oil.)
162 CAHINCA — CAJUPUTUM

Urinary.— Constant desire to urinate. Polyuria
while traveling. Urine fiery. Burning pain in urethra,
especially glandular portion.

Male. — Drawing in of testicles and spermatic cord.
Pain worse during passage of pungent smelling urine.

Back. — Pain in region of kidneys; better lying bent
backward. General fatigue.

Relationship. — Compare: Apocyn.; <Ars.; Coffea
(similar botanically and in relieving effects of fatigue).

Dose. — Third potency or lower.

CAJUPUTUM (OLEUM WITTNEBIANUM)
(Cajuput Oil)

Acts like Oil of Cloves. A remedy for flatulence and
affections of the tongue. Sense of enlargement. Causes
copious diaphoresis. Retrocedent gout. Neuralgic af-
fections not inflammatory. Nervous dyspneea.

Head. -- Feels much enlarged. As if he could not get
himself together. [Baptisia.]

Mouth. — Persistent sensation of choking. Spasmodic
stricture of @sophayus. Constricted sensation on swal-
lowing solid food. Tongue feels swollen, fills whole
mouth,

Stomach.—Hiccough, on slightest provocation.

Abdomen. — Flatulent colic; tympanites. [Terebd.]
Nervous distention of bowels. Urine smells like cat’s
urine. Spasmodic cholera.

Modalities. — Worse, about 5 a.M.; night.

Relationship. — Compare: Bovist.; Nux  mosch.;
Asaf.; Ign.; Bapt. :

Dose. -- First to third potency. - (5 drops of oil.)
CALADIUM SEGUINUM 163

CALADIUM SEGUINUM
(American Arum)

This remedy has a marked action on the genital
organs, and pruritus of this region. Coldness of single
parts and inclination to lie down, with aggravation on
lying on left side. Slightest noise startles from sleep.
Dread from motion. Modifies craving for tobacco.
Tobacco heart.

Head. —- Headaches and mental states of smokers.
Very forgetful, does not know about the occurrences
of things. Confused headache with pain in shoulder,
pressure in eyes and forehead; extremely sensitive to
noise, throbbing in ear.

Stomach. — Eructations. Stomach feels full of dry
food; sensation of fluttering. Acrid vomiting, and
tolerates only warm drinks. Sighing respiration.

Male. — Pruritus. Glans very red. Organs seem
larger, puffed, relaxed, cold, sweating; skin of scrotum
thick. Erections when half-asleep; cease when fully
awake. Impotency; relaxation of penis during excite-
ment. No emission and no orgasm during embrace.

Female. — Pruritus of vulva [Ambr.; Kreos.] ana
vagina during pregnancy. Vvluptuousness. Cramp
pains in uterus at night.

Skin. — Sweet sweat—attracts flies. Insect bites
burn and itch intensely. Itching rash alternates with
asthma. Burning sensation and erysipelatous inflam-
mation.

Respiratory. — Larynx seems constricted. Breathing
impeded. Catarrhal asthma; mucus not readily raised.
Patient afraid to go to sleep.

Modalities. — Beticr, after sweat, after sleeping in
daytime. Worse, motion.
164 CALADIUM—-CALCAREA ACETICA—C. ARS.

Relationship. — Incompatible: Arum triph.

Complementary: Nitr. ac.

Compare: Capsic.; Phosph.; Caust.; Selen.; Lyc.
Ikshugandha (sexual weakness, emissions, prostatic
enlargement).

Dose. — Third to sixth attenuation.

CALAREA ACETICA
(Acetate of Lime)

Has had brilliant clinical results in inflammations of
mucous membranes characterized by a membranous
exudation; otherwise its action and application is like
the carbonate. Cancer pains.

Head. — Vertigo in open air. Senses obscure while
reading. Megrim, with great coldness in head and sour
taste.

Female. — Membranous dysmenorrlua [Borax.]

Respiratory. — Rattling expiration. Cough loose,
with expectoration of large pieces like casts of bron-

_chial tubes. Breathing difficult; better bending
shoulders backward. Constrictive, anxious sensation in
chest.

Relationship. — Compare: Brom.; Borax; also Calc.
oxal. (found as a constituent of cactus) in excruciat-
ing pains of open cancer.

Dose. — Third trituration.

CALAREA ARSENICA
(Arsenite of Lime)
Epilepsy with rush of blood to the head before at-

tack; aura felt in region of heart; flying sensation.
Complaints in fat women around climacteric. Chronic
CALCAREA ARSENICA-—CALCAREA CARRONICA 165

malaria. Infantile enlarged liver and spleen. Nephritis,
with great sensitiveness in kidney region. Complaints
of drunkards after abstaining. [Carbon. sulph.]
Fleshy women at climacteric, slightest emotion causing
palpitation. Dyspnoea, with feeble heart. Chilliness.
Albuminuria. Dropsy. Affections of spleen and mesen-
teric glands. Hemoglobin and red corpuscles are low.

Mind. — Anger, anxiety. Desire for company. Con-
fusion, delusions, iJiusions.

Head. — Violent rush of blood to head with vertigo.
Pain in head better by lying on painful side. Weekly
headache. Benumbing headache mostly around ears.

Stomach. — Region of stomach distended. Enlarged
liver and spleen in children. Pancreatic disease; re-
lieves burning pain in cancer of pancreas.

Urinary. — Kidney region sersitive to pressure. Al-
buminuria, passes urine every hour.

Heart. — Constriction and pain in region of heart,
palpitation, oppression and throbbing.

Female. — Offensive, blondy Jeucorrhoea. Cancer of
uterus; burning pain in uterus and vagina.

Extremities. — Removes inflammatory products in
veins of lower extremities. [Apis.; Ars.]

Modalities. — Worse from slight exertion.

Dose. — Sixth trituration.

CALCAREA CARBONICA—OSTREARUM
(Carbonate of Lime)

This great Hahnemannian anti-psoric is a constitu-
tional remedy par excellence. Its chief action is cen-
tered in the vegetative sphere, impaired: nutrition be-
ing the keynote of its action, the glands, skin, and
166 CALCAREA CARBONICA

bones, being instrumental in the changes wrought. In-
creased local and general perspiration, swelling of
glands, scrofulous and = rachitic conditions generally
offer numerous opportunities for the exhibition of
Calcarea. Incipient phthisis. [Ars, jod.; Tuberculin.]}
It covers the tickling cough, fleeting chest pains, nausea,
acidity and dislike of fat. Gets out of breath easily. 4
jaded state, mental or physical, due to overwork. Ab-
scesses in decp muscles; polypi and exostoses.

Raised blood coagulability [Strontium]. Is a definite
stimulant to the periosteum, Is a hamostatic and gives
this power probably to the gelatine injections.

Easy relapses, interrupted convalescence. Persons
of scrofulous type, who take cold easily, with increased
mucous secretions, children who grow fat, are large-
bellied, with large head, pale skin, chalky look, the so-
called leuco-phlegmatic temperament; affections caused
by working in water (Great sensitiveness to cold; par-
tial sweats. Children crave eggs and eat dirt and other
indigestible things; are prone to diarrhoea. Calcarea
patient is fat, fair, flabby and perspiring and cold, damp
and scur.

Mind. — Apprehensive; worse towards evening; fears
loss of reason, misfortune. Forget{ful, confused, low-
spirited. Anxiety. with palpitation. Obstinacy; slight
mental effort produces hot head.

Head. — Headache, with cold hands and feet. Ver-
tigo on ascending, and when turning head. Headache
from overlifting, from mental exertion, with nausea.
Head feels hot and heavy, with pale face. Icy coldness
in, and on the head, especially right side. Open fon-
tanelles; head enlarged; much perspiration, wets the
pillow. Itching of the scalp. Scratches head on wak-
ing.
CALCAREA CARBONICA 167

Eyes. — Sensitive to light. Lachrymation in open air
and early in morning. Spots and ulcers on cornea.
Lachrymal ducts closed from exposure to cold. Easy
fatigue of eyes. Far-sighted. Itching of lids, swollen,
scurfy. Chronic dilatation of pupils. Cataract. Dim-
ness of vision, as if looking through a mist. Lachrymal
fistula: scrofulous ophthalmia.

Ears. — Throbbing, cracking in ears; stitches; pul-
sating pain as if something would press out. Deafness
from working in water. Polypi which bleed easily.
Scrofulous inflammation with muco-purulent otorrhaa,
and enlarged glands. Perversions of hearing; noise;
hardness of hearing.

Nose. -— Dry, nostrils sere, ulcerated. Stoppage of
nose, also with fetid, yellow discharge. Offensive odor
in nose. Polypt; swelling at root of nose. Epistaxis.
Coryza. Takes cold at every change of weather. Ca-
tarrhal symptoms with hunger; coryza alternates with
colic.

Face. -—— Swelling of upper lip. Pale, with deep-seated
eyes, surrounded by dark rings. Crusta lactea; itch-
ing, burning after washing. Submaxillary glands swol-
len. Goitre. Itching of pimples in whiskers. Pain
from right mental foramen along lower jaw to ear.

Mouth. — Persistent sour taste. Mouth fills with sour
water. Dryness of tongue at night. Bleeding of gums.
Difficult and delayed dentition. Teeth ache; excited
by current of air, anything cold or hot. Offensive smell
from mouth. Burning pain at tip of tongue; wdrse,
anything warm taken into stomach.

Throat.— Swelling of tonsils and submaxillary
glands; stitches on swallowing. Hawking-up of mucus.
Difficult swallowing. Gottre. Cracking noises in ear.
Parotid fistula.
168 CALCAREA CARBONICA

Stomach. —- Aversion to meat, boiled things, craving
for indigestible things — chalk, coal, pencils, eggs, salt,
and sweets. Milk disagrees. Frequent sour eructa-
tions; sour vomiting. Dislike of fat. Loss of appetite
when overworked. Heartburn and loud _ belching.
Cramps in stomach; worse, pressure, cold _ water.
Ravenous hunger. Swelling over pit of stomach, like a
saucer turned bottom up. Repugnance to hot food.
Pain in epigastric region to touch, Thirst; longing for
cold drinks. Aggravation while eating. Hyperchlor-
hydria [Phos.]

Abdomen. — Sensitive to slightest pressure. Liver
region painful when stooping. Cutting in abdomen;
enlargement of abdomen. Incarcerated flatulence. Jn-
guinal and mesenteric glands swollen and painful. Can-
not bear tight clothing around the waist. Distention
with hardness. Gall-stone colic. Increase of fat in
abdomen. Umbilical hernia. Trembling; weakness, as
if sprained. Children are Jate in learning to walk.
[Caust.]

Stooi. — Crawling and constriction in rectum. Stool
large and hard [Bry.]; whitish, watery, sour. Pro-
lapsus ani, and burning, stinging hemorrhoids. Diar-
thoea of undigested food, fetid, with ravenous appetite.
Children’s diarrhaa. Constipation; stool at first hard,
then pasty, then liquid.

Urine. — Dark, brown, sour, fetid, abundant, with
white sediment, bloody. Irritable bladder.

Male. — Frequent emissions. Increased desire. Se-
men emitted too soon. Coition followed by weakness
.and irritability.

‘ Female. — Befcre menses, headache, colic, chilliness
and leucorrhea. Cutting pains in uterus during men-
‘gtruation. Menses too carly, too profuse, too long,
CALCAREA CARBONICA 169

with vertigo, toothache and cold, damp feet; the least
excitement causes their return. Uterus easily dis-
placed. Leucorrheea, milky [Sepia.] Burning and itch-
ing of parts before and after menstruation; in little
girls. Increased sexual desire; easy conception. Hot
swelling breasts. Breasts tender and swollen before
menses. Milk too abundant; disagreeable to child. De-
ficient lactation, with distended breasts in lymphatic
women. Much sweat about external genitals. Sterility
with copious menses. Uterine polypi. [Bell.; Phos.;
Teucr.; Thuja.]

Respiratory. — Cough troublesome at night and dry
and free expectoration in morning; cough when playing
piano. Extreme dyspnoea. Painless hoarseness; worse
in the morning. Expectoration only during the day;
thick, yellow, sour mucus. Bloody expectoration; with
sour sensation in chest. Suffocating spells; tightness,
burning and soreness in chest: worse going upstairs.
Longing for fresh air.

Heart. — Palpitation at night and after eating. Pal-
pitation with feeling of coldness, with restless oppres-
sion of chest; after suppressed eruption. Cough at
night, from tickling in throat, aggravated by dampness.
Sharp pains in chest from before backwards. Chest
very sensitive to touch, percussion, or pressure,

Back. — Pain as if sprained; can scarcely rise; from
overlifting. Pain between shoulder-blades, impeding
breathing. Rheumatism in lumbar region; weakness
in small of back. Curvature of dorsal vertebra. Nape
of neck stiff and rigid. Renal colic.

Extremities. — Rheumatoid pains, as after exposure
to wet. Sharp sticking, as if parts were wrenched or
sprained. Cold, damp feet; feel as if damp stockings
were worn. Cold knees. Cramps in calves. Sour foot-
170 CALCAREA CARBONICA

sweat. Weakness of extremities. Swelling of joints,
especially knee. Burning of soles of feet. Sweat of
hands. Arthritic nodosities. Soles of fect raw. Feet
feel cold and dead at night. Old sprains.

Sleep. — Ideas crowding in her mind prevent sleep.
Horrid visions when opening eyes. Starts at every
noise; fears that she will go crazy. Drowsy in early
part of evening. Frequent waking at night. Same dis-
agreeable idca always arouses from light slumber.
Night terrors [Kali phos.] Dreams of the dead.

Fever. — Chill at 2 yp. M. begins internally in stomach
region, Fever with sweat. Pulse full and frequent.
Chilliness and heat. Partial sweats. Night sweats, cs-
pecially on head, neck and chest. Hectic fever. Heat
at night during menstruation, with restless sleep. Sweat
over head in children, so that pillow becomes wet.

Skin. — Unhealthy; readily ulcerating. Small wounds
do not heal readily. Glands swollen. Nettle rash; bet-
ter in cold air. Warts on face and hands. Petechial
eruptions. Chilblains. Boils.

Modalities. — Worse, from exertion, cold in every
form; water, washing, moist air, wet weather, during
full moon. Better, dry climate and weather; lying on
painful side.

Relationship. —Antidotes: Camph.; Ipec.: Nit ac.;
Nux.

Complementary: Bell.; Rhus; Lycop.; Silica.

Calcar. is useful after Sulphur where the pupils re-
main dilated.

Incompatible: Bry.; Sulphur shouid not be given
after Calc. '

Compare: 4qua — calcar —J.ime-water — (4 __tea-
spdonful in milk); (as injection for oxyuris ver-
micularis). Calc, caust. (pain in back and heels, jaws
CALCAREA CARBONICA 171

and malar bones). Calc. brom. (removes inflammatory
products from uterus; children of lax fiber, nervous
and irritable, with gastric and cerebral irritation.
Tendency to brain disease). Sulph. (differs in being
worse by heat, hot feet, etc.). JZeracleum (sebor-
rhoea capitis; violent itching and fatty perspiration
around head).

Calcar. picrata, peri-follicular inflammation (a rem-
edy of prime importance in recurring or chronic boils,
particularly when located on parts thinly covered with
muscle tissue, as on shinbones, coccyx, auditory canal“
dry, scurfy accumulation and exfoliation of epithelial
scales, etc., styes, phlyctenules).

Calc. mur. — Rademacher’s Liquor — (1 part to 2 of
distilled water, of which take 15 drops in half a cup of
water. five fimes daily. Boils. Porrigo capitis. Vomit-
ing of all food and drink, with gastric pain. Impetigo,
glandular swellings, angioneurotic cedema).

Calcar. lactic. (anemias, hemophilia, urticaria, where
the coagulability of the blood is diminished; 15 grains
three times a day, but low potencies often equally
effective).

Calcar. calcinata — Calcined oyster-shell—a remedy
for warts. Use 3d trituration. Calcarea ovorum. Ova
tosta — Toasted eggshells — (backache and leucorrhcea).

Compare: Lycop.; Sil.; Cham.; Kali bich.; Puls.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth attenuation. Should not
be repeated frequently in elderly people. Dram doses
of lime-water once a day for urticaria,
172 CALCAREA FLUORICA

CALCAREA FLUORICA
(Fluoride of Lime)

A powerful tissue remedy for hard, stony glands,
varicose and enlarged veins, and malnutrition of bones.
Hard knots in female breast. Goitre. Congenital
hereditary syphilis. Induration threatening suppura-
tion. Many cases of cataract have undoubtedly been in-
fluenced favorably by it. f. Congenital syphilis manifest-
ing itself in ulceration of mouth and throat, caries and
necrosis with boring pains and heat in parts. Arterio-
sclerosis; threatened apoplexy. Tuberculosis.

Mind. — Great depression; groundless fears of finan-
cial ruin.

Head. — Creaking noise in head. Blood-tumors of
new-born infants. Hard excrescences on the scalp.
Ulcers on the scalp with callous, hard edges.

Eyes, — Flickcring and sparks before the eyes, spots
on the cornea; conjunctivitis; cataract. Sitrumous
phlyctenular keratitis. Subcutaneous palpebral cysts.

Ears. -— Calcareous deposits on tympanum; sclerosis
of ossicuia and petrous portion of temporal bone, with
deafness, ringing and roaring. Chrowic suppuration of
middle ear.

Nose. — Cold in the head; stuffy cold; dry coryza;
ozena. Copicus, offensive, thick, greenish, lumpy, yel-
low nasal catarrh. Atrophic rhinitis, especially if crusts
are prominent.

Face.— Hard swelling on the cheek, with pain or
toothaehe, hard swelling on jaw-bone

Mouth. — Gum-boil, with hard swelling on the jaw.
Cracked appearance of the tongue, with or without
pain, Induration of the tongue, hardening after in-
_fammation. Unnatural looseness of the teeth, with or
172 CALCAREA FLUORICA

CALCAREA FLUORICA
(Fluoride of Lime)

A powerful tissue remedy for hard, stony glands,
varicose and enlarged veins, and malnutrition of bones.
Hard knots in female breast. Goitre. Congenital
hereditary syphilis. Induration threatening suppura-
tion. Many cases of cataract have undoubtedly been in-
fluenced favorably by it. f. Congenital syphilis manifest-
ing itself in ulceration of mouth and throat, caries and
necrosis with boring pains and heat in parts. Arterio-
sclerosis; threatened apoplexy. Tuberculosis.

Mind. — Great depression; groundless fears of finan-
cial ruin.

Head. — Creaking noise in head. Blood-tumors of
new-born infants. Hard excrescences on the scalp.
Ulcers on the scalp with callous, hard edges.

Eyes, — Flickcring and sparks before the eyes, spots
on the cornea; conjunctivitis; cataract. Sitrumous
phlyctenular keratitis. Subcutaneous palpebral cysts.

Ears. -— Calcareous deposits on tympanum; sclerosis
of ossicuia and petrous portion of temporal bone, with
deafness, ringing and roaring. Chrowic suppuration of
middle ear.

Nose. — Cold in the head; stuffy cold; dry coryza;
ozena. Copicus, offensive, thick, greenish, lumpy, yel-
low nasal catarrh. Atrophic rhinitis, especially if crusts
are prominent.

Face.— Hard swelling on the cheek, with pain or
toothaehe, hard swelling on jaw-bone

Mouth. — Gum-boil, with hard swelling on the jaw.
Cracked appearance of the tongue, with or without
pain, Induration of the tongue, hardening after in-
_fammation. Unnatural looseness of the teeth, with or
CALCAREA FLUORICA 173

without pain; teeth become loose in their sockets.
Toothache, with pain if any food touches the tooth.

Throat.— Pain and burning in throat; better by
warm drinks; worse, cold drinks. Hypertrophy of
Luschka’s tonsil. Relaxed uvula, tickling referred to
larynx.

Stomach. —- Vomiting of infants. Vomiting of undi-
gested food. WHiccough [Cajup.; Sulph. ac.J]. Flatu-
lency. [Nux mosch.] Weakness and daintiness of ap-
petite, nausea and distress after eating in young chil-
dren who are overtaxed by studies. Acute indigestion
from fatigue and brain-fag ; much flatulence.

Stool and Anus. — Diarrhcea in goutv subjects. Itch-
ing of anus. ITissure of the anus, and intensely sore
crack near the lower end of the bowel. Bleeding
hemorrhoids. Itching of anus as from pin-worms, In-
ternal or blind piles frequently, with pain in back, gen-
erally far down on the sacrum, and constipation. Much
wind in lower bowels.

Male. -— Hydrocele; indurations of the testicles.

Respiratory Organs. — Hoarseness. Croup, Cough
with expectoration of tiny lumps of yellow mucus, with
tickling sensation and irritation on lying down. Spas-
modic cough. Cale Fluor. removes fibroid deposits
about the endocardium and restores normal endocardial
structure. (Eli G. Jones, M.D.)

Circulatory Organs.— Chief remedy for vascular
tumors with dilated blood-vessels, and for varicose or
enlarged veins, Aneurysm. Valvular disease. When the
‘uberculous toxins attack the heart and blood-vessels.

Neck and Back. — Chronic lumbago; aggravated on
yeginning to move, and ameliorated on continued mo-
‘ion. Osseous tumors. Rachitic enlargement of femur
in infants. Pain lower part of back, with burning.
.

174 CALCAREA FLUORICA—CALCAREA IODATA

Extremities. — Ganglia or encysted tumors at the
back of the wrist. Gouty enlargements of the joints of
the fingers. Exostuses on fingers. Chronic synovitis
of knee-joint. .

Sleep. — Vivid dreams, with sense of impending dan-
ger. Unrefreshing sleep.

Skin. — Marked whiteness of skin. Scar tissue; ad-
hesions after operations. Chaps and cracks. Fissures
or cracks in the palms of the hands, or hard skin. Fis-
sure of the anus. Suppurations with callous, hard
edges. Whitlow. Indolent, fistulous ulcers, secreting
thick, yellow pus. Hard, elevated edges of ulcer, sur-
rounding skin purple and swollen. Knots, kernels,
hardened glands in the female breast. Swellings or in-
durated enlargements having their seat in the fasciz
and capsular ligaments of joints, or in the tendons. Jn-
durations of stony hardness.

Modalities. — Worse, during rest, changes of weather.
Bettcr, heat, warm applications.

Relationship. — Compare: Con.; Lapis; Baryt. mur.;
Hecla; Rhus.

Calcar. sulph-stibiata (acts as an hemostatic and ab-
sorptive in uterine myoma).

Mangifera indica (varicose veins).

Dose. — Third to twelfth trituration. Needs some
time before manifesting its effecis.

CALCAREA IODATA
(Iodide of Lime)

It is in the treatment of scrofulous affections, es-
pecially enlarged glands, tonsils, etc., that this remedy
has gained marked beneficial results. Flabby children
subject to colds. Sécretions inclined to be profuse and
yellow. Adenoids. Uterine fibroids. Croup.

‘ Head,— Headache while riding against cold wind.
CALCAREA IODATA — CALCAREA PHOSPHORICA 175

Light-headed. Catarrh; worse at root of nose; no
sneezing; very little sensation. Polypi of nose and ear.

Throat.— Enlarged tonsils are filled with little
crypts.

Respiratory. — Chronic cough; hectic fever; green,
purulent expectoration. Croup. Pneumonia.

Skin. — Indolent ulcers, accompanying varicose veins.
Easy perspiration,

Relationship. —-Compare: Agraphis — Bluebell (ade-
noids with enlarged tonsils). Here Sulph. tod. follows
both Agraphis and Calc. iod. Acon. lycotonum (swell-
ing of glands, Hodgkin’s disease).

Compare also: Calc. fluor.; Sil.; Merc. iod,

Dose. — Second and third trituration.

CALCAREA PHOSPHORICA
(Phosphate of Lime)

One of the important tissue remedies, and while it
has many symptoms in common with Calcarea carb.,
there are some differences and characteristic features
of its own. It is especially indicated in tardy denti-
tion and troubles incident to that period, bone disease,
non-union of fractured bores, and the anemias after
acute’ diseases and chronic wasting diseases. Anemic
children who are peevish, flabby, have cold extremities
and feeble digestion. It has a special affinity where bones
form sutures or symphyses, and all its symptoms are
worse from any change of weather. Numbness and
crawling are characteristic sensations, and tendency to
perspiration and glandular enlargement are symptoms
it shares with the carbonate.

Mind. — Peevish, forgetful; after grief and vexation.
[Ignat.; Phos, ac.] Always wants to go somewhere.

Head. -- Headache, znrse near the-region of sutures.
176 CALCAREA PHOSPHORICA

from change of weather, of school children about
puberty. Fontanelles remain open too long. Cranial
bones soft and thin. Defective hearing. Headache,
with abdominal flatulence. Head hot, with smarting
of roots of hair.

Eyes. — Diffused opacity in cornea following abscess.

Mouth. — Swollen tonsils; cannot open mouth with-
out pain. Complaints during teething; teeth develop
slowly; rapid decay of teeth. Adenoid growths.
[Agraph.]

Stomach. — Infant wants to nurse all the time and
vomits easily. Craving for bacon, ham, salted or
smoked meats. Much flatulence. Great hunger with
thirst, flatulence temporarily relieved by sour eructa-
tions. Heartburn. Easy vomiting in children.

Abdomen. — At every attempt to eat, colicky pain in
abdomen. Sunken and flabby. Colic, soreness and
burning around navel.

Stool. — Bleeding afle: laid stuul. Diaithwa from
juicy fruits or cider; during dentition. Green, slimy,
hot, sputtering, undigested, with fetid flatus. Fistula
in ano, alternating with chest symptoms.

Urine. — Increased, with sensation of weakness. Pain
in region of kidneys when lifting or blowing the nose.

Female. — Menses too early, excessive, and bright in
girls. If late, blood is dark; sometimes, first bright,
then dark, with violent backache. During lactation with
sexual excitement. Nymphomania, with aching, press-
ing, or weakness in uterine region. [Plat.] After pro-
longed nursing. Leucorrheea, like white of egg
[Borax.] Worse morning. Child refuses breast; milk
tastes salty. Prolapsus in debilitated persons.

Respiratory. — Involuntary sighing. Chest sore. Suf-
focative cough; better lying down. Hoarseness. Pain
through lower left lung.
CALCAREA PHOSPHORICA — CALCAREA SILICATA 177

Neck and Back. — Rheumatic pain from draught of
air, with stiffness and dullness of head. Soreness in
sacro-iliac symphysis, as if broken. [sc. hip.]

Extremities. — Stiffness and pain, with cold, numb
feeling, worse any change of weather. Crawling and
coldness. Buttocks, back and limbs asleep. Pains in
joints and bones. Weary when going upstairs.

Relationship. — Complementary: Ruta; Hepar.

Compare: Culcar. hypophosporosa is to be preferred
when it seems necessary to furnish the organism with
liberal doses of phosphorus in consequence of con-
tinued abscesses having reduced the vitality. Give first
and second decimal trits. Loss of appetite, rapid debil-
ity, night sweats; Acne pustulosa.— Pallor of skin,
habitually cold extremitics. Phthisis-—diarrhoea and
cough; acute pains in chest. Mesenteric tuberculosis.
Bleeding from lungs; angina pectoris; asthma; affection
of arteries. Veins stand out like whipcords. Attacks of
pain occurring two hours after meals (relieved by a
cup of milk or light food). Chciranthus (effects of
cutting wisdom teeth). Calcarea renalis — Lapis renalis
-— (arthritic nodosities. Rigg’s disease; lessens tendency
to accumulation of tartar on teeth; gravel and renal
calculi). Conchiolin. Mater perlarum. Mother of
pearl (Osteitis—-Has a wide range of action in bone
affections, especially when the growing ends are af-
fected. Petechia), Silica; Psorin.; Sulph.

Modalities. — Worse, exposure to damp, cold weather,
melting snow. Better, in summer; warm, dry atmo-
sphere.

Dose. — First to third trituration.

CALCAREA SILICATA
(Silicate of Lime)

A deep, long acting medicine for complaints which
come on slowly and reach their final development after
178 ~~ CALCAREA SILICATA — CALCAREA SULPILURICA

long periods. Hydrogenoid constitution [Nat. sulph]
Very sensitive to cold. Patient is weak, emaciated,
cold and chilly, but worse from being overheated; sen-
sitive generally. Atrophy of children.

Mind. — Absent-minded, irritable, irresolute, lacks
self-confidence. Fearful.

Head. — Vertigo, head cold, especially at vertex; ca-
tarrh of nose and posterior nares, discharge thick, yel-
low, hard crusts. Corneal exudation.

Stomach. — Sensation of coldness, especially when
empty. Sinking sensation at pit. Great thirst. Flatu-
lence and distention after eating. Vomiting and eruc-
tations.

Female.— Uterus heavy, prolapsed. Leucorrhea,
painful and irregular menses. Flow between periods.

Respiratory. — Sensitive to cold air. Difficult res-
Piration. Chronic irritation of air passages. Copious,
yellow-green mucus. Coughs with coldness, weakness,
emaciation, sensitiveness and peevishness, worse from
cold air. Pain in chest walls,

Skin. — Itching, burning, cold and blue, very sensi-
tive. Pimples, comedones, wens. Psoric eruptions.

Relationship. — Compare: Arsenic; Tubercul.; Baryt.
carb.; Tod.

Dose. —- All potencies from lowest to high.

CALCAREA SULPHURICA
(Sulphate of Lime — Plaster of Paris)

Eczema and torpid glandular swellings. Cystic
tumors. Fibroids: Suppurative processes come within
the range of this remedy, after pus has found a vent.
Mucus discharges are yeilow, thick and lumpy.
CALCAREA SULPHURICA 179

Head. — Scald-head of children, if there be purulent
discharge, or yellow, purulent crusts.

Eyes. — /nflammation of the eyes, with discharge of
thick, yellow matter. Sees only oue-half an object.
Cornea smoky. Ophthalmia neonatorum.

Ears. — Deafness, with discharge of matter from the
middle ear, sometimes mixed with blood. Pimples
around ear.

Nose. — Cold in the head, with thick, yellowish, puru-
lent secretion, frequently tinged with blood. One-sided
discharge from nose. Yellowish discharge from pos-
terior nares. Edges of nostrils sore.

Face. — imples and pustules on the face. Herpes.

Mouth. — Inside of Jips sore. Tengue flabby, re-
sembling a layer of dried clay. Sour, svapy, acrid
taste. Yellow cvating at base.

Throat. — Last stage of ulcerated sore throat, with
discharge of yellow matter. Suppurating stage of ton-
sillitis, when abscess is discharging.

Abdomen. — Pain in region of liver, in right side of
pelvis, followed by weakness, nausea, and pain in
stomach.

Stool. — Purulent diarrhoea mixed with blood. Diar-
rhoea after maple sugar and from change of weather.
Pus-like, slimy discharge from the bowels. Painful ab-
scesses about the anus in cases of fistula.

Female. — Menses late, long-lasting, with headache,
twitching, great weakness.

Respiratory.— Cough, with purulent and sanious
sputa and hectic fever. Empyema, pus forming in the
lungs or pleural cavities. Purulent, sanious expectora-
tion. Catarrh, with thick, lumpy, white-yellow or pus-
like secretion.
180 CALCAREA SULPHURICA — CALENDULA OFFICINALIS

Extremities. — Burning-itching of soles of feet.

Fever. — Hectic fever, caused by formation of pus.
With cough and burning in soles.

Skin. — Cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., unhealthy, dis-
charging pus; they do not heal readily. Yellow, puru-
lent crusts or discharge. Purulent exudations in or
upon the skin. Skin affections with yellowish scabs.
Many little matterless pimples under the hair, bleeding
when scratched.

Relationship. — Compare: Hepar; Silica.

Dose. — Second and third trituration.

CALENDULA OFFICINALIS
(Marigold)

A most remarkable healing agent, applied locally.
Useful for open wounds, parts that will not heal, ulcers,
etc. Tootache. Deafness. Catarrhal conditions. Neu-
roma. Constitutional tendency to erysipelas. Pain is
excessive and out of all proportion to injury. Great
dispesition to take cold, especially in damp weather.
Paralysis after apoplexy. Cancer. as an intercurrent
remedy. Has remarkable power to produce local exuda-
tion and helps to make acrid discharge healthy and
free. Cold hands; nervous states. Easily frightened.

Head.— Extremely nervous; tearing headache;
weight on brain. Submaxillary glands swollen, painful
to touch. Pain in right side of neck.

Eyes. — Injuries to eyes which tend to suppuration;
after operations; blenoirhcea of lachrymal sac.

Ears. — Deafness; worse in damp surroundings and
“with eczematous conditions. Hears best on a train,
and distant sounds.
CALENDULA OFFICINALIS 181

Nose. — Coryza in one nostril; with much green dis-
charge.

Stomach. — Hunger immediately after nursing.
Bulimy. Heartburn with horripilations, Nausea in
chest. Vomiting. Sinking sensation. Epigastric dis-
tention. “

Respiratory. — Cough, with green expectoration,
hoarseness; with distention of inguinal ring.

Female. — Warts at the os externum. Menses sup-
pressed, with cough. Chronic endocervicitis. Uterine
hypertrophy, sensation of weight and fullness in pelvis;
stretching and dragging in groin; pain on sudden move-
ments. Os lower than natural. Menorrhagia.

Skin. -— Yellow; goose-flesh. Promotes favorable
cicatrization, with least amount of suppuration. Slough,
proud flesh, and raised edges.

Fever. — Coldness, great sensitweness to open air;

shuddering in back, skin feels warm to touch. Heat
in evening.

Modalities. — Worse, in damp, heavy, cloudy weather.

Relationship. — Compare: Hamamel.; Hyperic.;
Symph.; Arn.

Compare in deafness: Ferr. pic.; Kal. tod.; Calc.;
Mag. c.; Graph. .

Antidote: Chelidon.; Rheum.

Complementary: Hepar.

Dose. — Locally. Aqueous Calendula [Marigoldin.]
for all wounds, the greatest healing agent, Also as an

injection in leucorrhcea; internally, tincture, to third
potency.
182 CALOTROPIS — CALTHA PALUSTRIS — CAMPHORA

CALOTROPIS
(Madar Bark)

Has been used with marked success in the treatment
of syphilis following Mercury; also, in elephantiasis,
leprosy, and acute dysentery. Pneumonic phthisis.

Increases the circulation in the skin; has powerful
effects as a sudorific. In the secondary symptoms of
syphilis, where Mercury has been used but cannot be
pushed safely any farther, it rapidly recruits the con-
stitution, heals the ulcers and blotches from the skin,
and perfects the cure. Primary anemia of syphilis.
IIcat in stomach is a good guiding symptom. Obesity,
while flesh decreases, muscles become harder and firmer.

Relationship.— Compare: Merc.; Potass. iod.; Berb.
agui.; Sarsap.

Dose. — Tincture, onc to five drops; three times a
day.

CALTHA PALUSTRIS
(Cowslip)

Pain iu abdomen, vomiting, headache, singing in ears,
dysuria and diarrhea.

Skin. — Pemphigus. Bull are surrounded by a ring.
Much itching. Face much swollen, especially around
the eyes. Itching eruption on thighs. Pustules.
Uterine cancer.

Dose. — Tincture.

CAMPHORA
(Camphor)

Pictures a state of collapse. Jcy coldness of the
whole body; sudden, sinking. .of.strength; pulse small.
and? weak. After operations, if temperature is sub-
normal, low blood pressure, 3 doses camph. ix, 15-
182 CALOTROPIS — CALTHA PALUSTRIS — CAMPHORA

CALOTROPIS
(Madar Bark)

Has been used with marked success in the treatment
of syphilis following Mercury; also, in elephantiasis,
leprosy, and acute dysentery. Pneumonic phthisis.

Increases the circulation in the skin; has powerful
effects as a sudorific. In the secondary symptoms of
syphilis, where Mercury has been used but cannot be
pushed safely any farther, it rapidly recruits the con-
stitution, heals the ulcers and blotches from the skin,
and perfects the cure. Primary anemia of syphilis.
IIcat in stomach is a good guiding symptom. Obesity,
while flesh decreases, muscles become harder and firmer.

Relationship.— Compare: Merc.; Potass. iod.; Berb.
agui.; Sarsap.

Dose. — Tincture, onc to five drops; three times a
day.

CALTHA PALUSTRIS
(Cowslip)

Pain iu abdomen, vomiting, headache, singing in ears,
dysuria and diarrhea.

Skin. — Pemphigus. Bull are surrounded by a ring.
Much itching. Face much swollen, especially around
the eyes. Itching eruption on thighs. Pustules.
Uterine cancer.

Dose. — Tincture.

CAMPHORA
(Camphor)

Pictures a state of collapse. Jcy coldness of the
whole body; sudden, sinking. .of.strength; pulse small.
and? weak. After operations, if temperature is sub-
normal, low blood pressure, 3 doses camph. ix, 15-
CAMPHORA 183

minute intervals. This condition is met with in cholera,
and here it is that Camphor has achieved classical
fame. First stages of a cold, with chilliness and snees-
ing. Subsultus and extreme restlesness. Cracking of
joints. Camphor has a direct relationship to muscles
and fascia. In local rheumatic affections in cold cli-
mates necessary. Distention of veins.

It is characteristic of Camphor that the patient will
not be covcred, notwithstanding the icy coldness of the
body. One of the main remedies in shock. Pain better
while thinking cf i, Very sensitive to cold and to
touch. Sequele of measles. Violent convulsion. Te-
tanic spasms. Scrofulous children and irritable, weakly
blondes especially affected.

Head. — Influenza; headache, with cartarrhal symp-
toms, sneezing, etc. Beating pain in cerebellum. Cold
sweat. Nose cold and pinched. Tongue cold, flabby,
trembling. Fleeting stitches in temporal region and
orbits. Head sore. Occipital throbbing, synchronous
with the pulse.

Eyes. — Fixed, staring; pupils dilated. Sensation as
if all objects were too bright and glittering.

Nose. — Stopped; sneezing. Fluent coryza on sud-
den change uf weather. Cold and pinched. Persistent
epistaxis, especially with goose-flesh state of skin.

Face.— Pale, haggard, anxious, distorted; bluish,
cold.

Stomach. — Pressive pain in pit of stomach. Cold-
ness, followed by burning.

Stool. — Blackish; involuntary. Asiatic cholera, with
cramps in calves, coldness of body, anguish, great weak-
ness, collapse, tongue and mouth cold.
184 CAMPHORA

Urine. — Burning and strangury, with tenesmus of
the neck of the bladder. Retention with full bladder.

Male.— Desire increased. Chordee. Priapism.
Nightly emissions.

Respiratory. — Przcordial distress. Suffocative dysp-
nea. Asthma. Violent, dry, hacking cough. Palpita-
tion. Breath cold. Suspended respiration.

Sleep. — Insomnia, with cold limbs. Subsultus and
extreme restlessness,

Extremities. — Rheumatic pain between shoulders.
Difficult motion. Numbness, tingling and coldness.
Cracking in joints. Cramps in calves. Icy cold feet,
ache as if sprained,

Fever.— Pulse small, weak, slow. Icy coldness of
the whole body. Culd perspiration. Congestive chill.
Tongue cold, flabby, trembling.

Skin. — Cold, pale, blue, livid. Cannot bear to be
covered. [Secale.]

Modaiities. — Hi’orse, motion, night, contact, cold air.
Better, warmth.

Relationship. — Camphor antidotes or modifies the
action of nearly every vegetable medicine — tobacco,
worm medicines, etc. Laffa acutangula (whole body
ice-cold, with a restlessness and anxiety; burning thirst).
Camphoric acid (a prophylactic against catheter fever;
cystitis 15 grains three times a day).

Incompatible: Kali nit.

Complementary: Canth.

Antidotes: Opium; Nitr, sp. dule.; Phos,

Compare: Carbo; Cuprum; Arsenic; Veratr.

Dose. — Tincture, in drop doses, repeated frequently,
or smelling of Spirits of Camphor.
CAMPH. MONO-BROM. — CANCHALAGUA — CAN. IND. 185

CAMPHORA MONO-BROMATA
(Mono-bromide of Camphor)

Nervous excitability is the guiding condition. Sup-
pression of milk. Nightly emissions. Painful erections.
Paralysis agitans. Cholera infantum, and infantile con-
vulsions. Intensifies the action of Quinine and renders
it more permanent.

Mind. — Directions appear reversed, i. e., north seems
south, and east seems west. Hysteria; weeping and
laughing alternately. Trance-like state.

Dose. — Second trituration.

CANCHALAGUA
(Erythrza chironiodes — Centaury)

Of use in severe types of iniermittent fever in hot
countries; also, in influenza. Sore, as if bruised all
over. Sensation of drops falling from and upon dif-
ferent spots.

Head. —- Congested. Scalp fecls tight; head feels as
if bound; burning in eyes; buzzing in ears.

Fever. — Chill all over; worse in bed at night. Sen-
Sitive to cold trade-winds on Pacific Coast. General
sore and bruised feeling; nausea and retching.

Skin. — Wrinkled like 1 washerwoman’s. Scalp feels
tight, as if drawn together by India-rubber.

Dose. -- Tincture, in drop doses.

CANNABIS INDICA
(Hashish)
Produces the most remarkable hallucinations and

imaginations, exaggeration of the duration of time and
extent of space, being most characteristic. Ideas crowd
186 CANNABIS INDICA

upon each other. Has great soothing influence in many
nervous disorders, like epilepsy, mania, dementia, de-
lirium tremens, and irritable reflexes. Exophthalmic
goitre. Weak digestion.

Mind. — Excessive loquacity; exuberance of spirits.
Time secms too long; seconds seem ayes; a few rods
an immense distance, Constantly theorizing. Anxious
depression; constant fear of becoming insane. Sense
of duality. Very forgetful; cannot finish sentence. Is
lost in delicious thought. Uncontrollable laughter. De-
lirium tremens. Clairvoyance. Emotional excitement;
rapid change of mood.

Head. —- Feels as if top of head were opening and
shutting and as if calvarium were being lifted. Shocks
through brain. [Aloe; Coca.] Uramic headache.
Throbbing and weight at occiput. Headache with flat-
ulence. Involuntary shaking of head, Migrain attack
preceded by unusual excitement with loquacity.

Eyes. — Fixed. Letters run together when reading.
Clairvoyance.

Ears, -— Throbbing, buzzing, and ringing. Noise like
boiling water. Extreme sensitiveness to noise.

Face. — Expression drowsy and stupid. Lips glued
together. Grinding of teeth in sleep. Mouth and lips
dry. Saliva thick, frothy, and sticky.

Stomach. — Increased appetite. Pain at cardiac ori-
fice; better, pressure. Distention. Pyloric spasm.

Rectum. —- Sensation in anus as if sitting on a ball.

Urinary. — Urine loaded with slimy mucus. Must
strain; driblling; has to wait sume time before the
urine flows. Stitches and burning in urethra. Dull
pain in region of right kidney.
CANNABIS INDICA 187

Male. — After sexual intercourse, backache. Oozing
of white, glairy mucus from glans, Satyriasis. Pro-
longed thrill. Chordee. Sensation of swelling in peri-
neum or near anus, as if sitting on a ball.

Female.— Menses profuse, dark, painful, without
clots. Uterine colic, with great nervous agitation and
sleeplessness. Sterility. [Borax.]

Respiratory. — Humid asthma. Chest oppressed with
deep, labored breathing.

Heart. —- Palpitation awakes him. Piercing pain, with
great oppression. Pulse very slow. [Dig.; Kalmta;
Apocyn. |

Extremities. — Pain across shoulders and spine; must
stoop; cannot walk erect. Thrilling through arms and
hands, and from knees down. Entire paralysis of the
lower extremities. Pain in soles and calves; sharp
pains in knees and ankles; very exhausted after a short
walk,

Sleep. — Very sleepy, but unable to do so. Obstinate
and intractable forms of insomnia. Catalepsy. Dream
of dead bodies; prophetic. Nightmare. .

Modalities. — Worse, morning; from coffee, liquor
and tobacco; lying on right side. Better from fresh
air, cold water, rest.

Relationship. — Bellad.; Hyoscy.; Stram.; Laches.;
Agaric.; Anhalon (time sense disordered; time periods
enormously overestimated, thus, minutes seem hours,
etc.).

Dose. — Tincture and first attenuation.
188 CANNABIS SATIVA

CANNABIS SATIVA
(Hemp)

Seems to affect especially the urinary, sexual, and
respiratory organs. It has characteristic sensations as
of dropping water. Great fatigue, as from over-exer-
tion; weary after meals. Choking in swallowing ; things
go down the wrong way. Stuttering, Confusion of
thought and speech. Wavering speech, hasty, inco-
herent. [Baryt.; Nat, mur]

Head. — Lectophobia. Vertigo; sensation of drop-
ping water on head. Pressure on root of nose.

Eyes. — Opacity of cornca. Cataract from nervous
disturbances, abuse of alcohol and tobacco; patient
feels deeply approaching blindness. Misty sight.
Pressure from hack of eyes, forward. Gonorrhceal
ophthalmia. Eyeballs ache. Scrofulous eye troubles.
[Sulph.; Calc.]

Urine. — Retained, with obstinate constipation. Pain-
ful urging. Micturition in split stream. Stitches in
urethra. Inflamed sensation, with soreness to touch.
Burning while urinating, extending to bladder. Urine
scalding, with spasmodic closure of sphincter. Gonor-
rheea, acute stage; urethra very sensitive. Walks with
legs apart. Dragging in testicles. Zigzag pain along
urethra. Sexual overexcitement. Urethral caruncle
[L:ucalypt.], phimosis. Stoppage of urethra by mucus
and pus.

Female. — Amenorrhcea when physical powers have
been overtaxed, also with constipation.

Respiratory. —- Oppression of breathing and palpita-
tion; must stand up. Weight on chest; rattling wheez-
ing, breathing. .Cough, with green viscid, also bloody,
expectoration,
CANNABIS SATIVA — CANTHARIS 189

Heart. — Sensation as if drops were falling from the
heart. Painful strokes and tension with palpitation.
Pericarditis.

Sleep. — Frightful dreams. More tired in morning.
sleepy during day.

Extremities. — Contraction of fingers after a sprain.
Dislocation of patella on going upstairs. Feet feel
heavy on going upstairs. Paralytic tearing pains. Af-
fections of the ball of the foot and under part of toes.

Modalities. -— Worse, lying down; going ppstairs.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Camph.; Lemon juice.

Compare: IIcdysarum — Brazilian Burdock - - (Gon-
orrheea and inflammation of penis); Canth.; Apis; Co-
paiva; Thuj.; Kal. nit.

Dose. — Tincture to third attenuation. In stuttering
the 30th.

CANTHARIS
(Spanish Fly)

This powerful drug produces a furious disturbance
in the animal economy, attacking the urinary and
sexual organs especially, perverting their function, and
setting up violent inflammations, and causing a frenzied
delirium, simulating hydrophobia symptoms. [.4nagal-
lis.] Puerperal convulsions. Produces most violent in-
flammation of the whole gastro-intestinal canal, espe-
cially lower bowel. Oversensitiveness of all parts. Ir-
ritation, Kaw, burning pains. Hemorrhages. JIntol-
erable, constant urging to urinate is most characteristic.
Gastric, hepatic and abdominal complaints that are ag-
gravated by drinking coffee. Gastric derangements of
pregnancy. Dysuria, with other complaints. Increases
secretion of mucous membranes, tenacious mucus.

Mind. —Furious delirium. Anxious restlessness, end-
ing in rage. Crying, barking; worse touching larynx
190 CANTHARIS

or drinking water. Constantly attempts to do some-
thing, but accomplishes nothing. Acute mania, gen-
erally of a sexual type; amorous frenzy; fiery sexual
desire. Paroxysms of rage, crying, barking. Sudden
loss of consciousness with red face.

Head. — Burning in brain. Sensation as if boiling
water in brain. Vertigo; worse in open air,

Eyes. — Yellow vision. [Santon.] Fiery, sparkling,
staring look. Burning in eyes.

Ears. — Sensation as if wind were coming from ear,
or hot air. Bones about ear painful. [ Capsic.]

Face. — Pale, wretched, death-like appearance. Itch-
ing vesicles on face, burning when touched. Erysipelas
of face, with burning, biting heat with urinary symp-
toms. Hot and red.

Throat.— Tongue covered with vesicles; deeply
furred; edges red. Burning in mouth, pharynx, and:
throat; vesicles in mouth. (rreat difficulty m swallow-
ing liquids. Very tenacious mucus. [Kal, bich.] Vio-
lent spasins reproduced by touching larynx. Inflamma-
tion of throat; feels on fire. Constriction; aphthous
ulceration. [Hydr. mur.; Nit. ac.]

Chest. — Pleurisy, as soon as effusion has taken place.
Intense dyspnea; palpitation; frequent, dry cough.
Tendency to syncope. Short, hacking cough, blood-
streaked tenacious mucus. Burning pains.

Stomach. — Burning sensation of cesophagus and
stomach. [Carb.] Disgust for everything — drink,
food, tobacco. Burning thirst, with aversion to all
fluids. Very sensitive, violent burning. Vomiting of
blood-streaked menibrane and violent retching. 4g-
gravation from drinking coffee; drinking the smallest
quantity increases pain in bladder, and is vomited.
Thirst wnquenchable.
CANTHARIS 191

Stool. — Shivering with burning. Dysentery; mucus
stools, like scrapings of intestines. Bloody, with burn-
ing and tenesmus and shuddering after stool,

Urine. — Intolerable urging and tenesmus. Nephritis
with bloody urine. Violent paroxysms of cutting and
Durning in whole renal region, with painful urging to
urinate; bloody urine, by drops, Intolerable tenesmus;
cutting before, during, and after urine. Urine scalds
him, and is passed drop by drop. Constant desire to
urinate. Membranous scales looking like bran in water.
Urine jelly-like, shreddy.

Male.— Strong desire; painful erections. Pain in
glans. [Prunus; Parcira.) Priapism in gonorrhea.

Female. — Retained placenta [Sep.], with painful
urination. Expels moles, dead foetuses, membranes,
etc. Nymphomania, ([Plat.; Hyos.; Lach.; Stram.]
Puerperal metritis, with inflammation of bladder.
Menses too early and too profuse; black swelling of
vulva with irritation. Constant discharge from uterus;
worse false step. Burning pain in ovaries; extremely
sensitive. Pain in os coccyx, lancinating and tearing.

Respiratory.— Voice low; weak feeling. Stitches
in chest. [Bry.; Kal. c.; Squilla.] Pleurisy, with ex-
udation.

Heart. — Palpitation; pulse feeble, irregular; ten-
dency to syncope. Pericarditis, with effusion.

Back.-- Pain in loins, with incessant desire to
urinate.

Extremities. — Tearing in limbs. Ulcerative pain in
soles; cannot step.

Skin. — Dermatitis venenata with bleb formation.
Secondary eczema about scrotum and genitals, follow-
ing excessive perspiration. Tendency to gangrene.
194 CAPSICUM — CARBO ANIMALIS

Male. — Coldness of scrotum, with impotency, loss of
sensibility in testicles, with softening and dwindling.
Gonorrheea, with chordee, excessive burning, pain in
prostate.

Female. — Uterine hemorrhage near the menopause,
with nausea. Sticking sensation in left ovarian region.

Respiratory. — Constriction of chest; arrests breath-
ing. Hoarseness. Dry, hacking cough, expelling an
offensive breath from lungs. Dyspnoea. Feels as if
chest and head would fly to pieces. Explosive cough.
Threatening gangrene of lung. Pain in distant parts
on coughing — bladder, legs, ears, etc.

Extremities.— Pain from hips to feet. Sciatica,
worse bending backward; worse, coughing. Tensive
pain in the knee.

Fever. — Coldness, with ill-humor. Shivering after
drinking. Chill begins in back; better, heat. Must
have something hot to back Thirst before chill.

Modalities. — Beticr, while eating, from heat. Worse,
open air, uncovering, draughts.

Relationship, — Antidote: Cina; Calad.

Compare: Pulsat.; Lycop.; Bell.; Centaurea (surg-
ing of blood; homesickness; intermittent fever).

Dose.— Third to sixth attenuation. In delirium
tremens, dram doses of tincture in milk,

CARBO ANIMALIS
(Animal Charcoal)

Seems to be especially adapted to scrofulous and
venous constitutions, old people, and after debilitating
disease, with feeble circulation and lowered vitality.
Glands are indurated, veins distended, skin blue. Stitch
remaining after pleurisy. Easily strained from lifting.
194 CAPSICUM — CARBO ANIMALIS

Male. — Coldness of scrotum, with impotency, loss of
sensibility in testicles, with softening and dwindling.
Gonorrheea, with chordee, excessive burning, pain in
prostate.

Female. — Uterine hemorrhage near the menopause,
with nausea. Sticking sensation in left ovarian region.

Respiratory. — Constriction of chest; arrests breath-
ing. Hoarseness. Dry, hacking cough, expelling an
offensive breath from lungs. Dyspnoea. Feels as if
chest and head would fly to pieces. Explosive cough.
Threatening gangrene of lung. Pain in distant parts
on coughing — bladder, legs, ears, etc.

Extremities.— Pain from hips to feet. Sciatica,
worse bending backward; worse, coughing. Tensive
pain in the knee.

Fever. — Coldness, with ill-humor. Shivering after
drinking. Chill begins in back; better, heat. Must
have something hot to back Thirst before chill.

Modalities. — Beticr, while eating, from heat. Worse,
open air, uncovering, draughts.

Relationship, — Antidote: Cina; Calad.

Compare: Pulsat.; Lycop.; Bell.; Centaurea (surg-
ing of blood; homesickness; intermittent fever).

Dose.— Third to sixth attenuation. In delirium
tremens, dram doses of tincture in milk,

CARBO ANIMALIS
(Animal Charcoal)

Seems to be especially adapted to scrofulous and
venous constitutions, old people, and after debilitating
disease, with feeble circulation and lowered vitality.
Glands are indurated, veins distended, skin blue. Stitch
remaining after pleurisy. Easily strained from lifting.
CARBO ANIMALIS 195

Weakness of nursing women. Ulceration and decom-
position. Causes local cong2stions without heat.

Mind. — Desire to be alone, sad and reflective, avoids
conversation. Anxiety at night, with orgasm of blood.

Head. — Headache, as if head had been blown to
pieces. Rush of blood with confusion Sensation as
if something lay above eyes so that she could not look
up. Bluish cheeks and lips. Vertigo followed by nosc-
bleed. Nose swollen, tip bluish — small tumor cn it.
Hearing confused; cannot tell direction of sound

Stomach. --- Eating tires patient. Weak, empty feel-
ing in stomach. Burning and griping. Weak digestion.
Flatulence, Ptomaine poisoning. Repugnance to fat
food. Sour water from mouth. Pyrosis.

Female.— Nausea of pregnancy; worse at night.
Lochia offensive. [Kreos.; Rhus; Secale.] Menses
followed by greut evhaustion, so weak, can hardly
speak. [Cocc.], flow only in morning. [Bor.; Sep.]
Burning in vagina and Jabia. Darting in breast; pain-
ful‘ indurations in breast, especially right. Cancer of
uterus, burning pain down thighs.

Respiratory. — Pleurisy, typhoid character, and re-
maining stitch. Ulceration of lung, with feeling of
coldness of chest. Cough, with discharge of greenish
pus.

Skin. —Spongy ulcers,. copper-colored eruption.
Acne rosacea. Chilblains, worse in evening, in bed and
from cold, Verruca on hands and face of old people,
with bluish color of extremities. Glands indurated,
swollen, painful, in neck, axilla, groin, mamme; pains
lancinating, cutting, burning. [Con.; Merc. iod. flav.]

Extremities. — Pain in coccyx; burns when touched.
Ankles turn easily. Straining and over-lifting produce
198 CARBO VEGETABILIS

from flatulence, Nausea in the morning. Burning in
stomach, extending to back and along spine. Contrac-
tive pain extending to chest, with distention of ab-
domen. Faint gone feeling in stomach, not relieved
by eating. Crampy pains forcing patient to bend
double. Distress comes on a halt-hour after eating.
Sensitiveness of epigastric region. Digestion slow; food
puircfws before it digests. Gastralgia of nursing
women, with excessive flatulence, sour, rancid belch-
ing. Aversion to milk, meat, and fat things. The
simplest food distresses. Epigastric region very sen-
sitive.

Abdomen. — Pain as from lifting a weight; colic
from riding in a carriage; excessive discharge of fetid
flatus. Cannot bear tight clothing around waist and
abdcmen. Ailments accompanying intestinal fistula.
Abdomen greatly distended; better, passing wind.
Flatulent colic. Pain in liver.

Rectum and Stool. Flatus hot. moist, offensive.
Itching, gnawing and burning in rectum. Acrid, cor-
rosive moisture from rectum. A musty, glutinous
moisture exudes. Soreness, itching and moisture of
perinenm at night. Discharge of blood from rectum.
Burning at anus, burning varices. [Aur. ac.] Painful
diarrhea of old people. Frequent, involuntary ca-
daverous-smelling stools, followed by burning. White
hemorrhoids; excoriation of anus. Bluish, burning
piles, pain after stool.

Male. — Discharge of prostatic fluid at stool. Itch-
ing and moisture at thigh near scrotum.

Female.— Premature and too copious menses; pale
blood. Vulva swollen; aphthe; varices on pudenda.
Leucorrhcea before menses, thick, greenish, milky, ex-
coriating. [Kreos.] During menstruation, burning in
hands and soles.
CARBO VEGETABILIS 199

Respiratory. — Cough with itching in larynx; spas-
modic with gagging and vomiting of mucus. Whoop-
ing cough, especially in beginning. Deep, rough voice,
failing on slight exertion. Hoarseness; worse, eve-
nings, talking; evening oppression of breathing, sore and
raw chest. Wheezing and rattling of mucus in chest.
Occasional spells of long coughing attacks. Cough,
with burning in chest; worse in evening, in open air,
after eating and talking. Spasmodic cough, bluish face,
offensive expectoration, neglected pneumonia. Breath
cold; must be fanned. Hemorrhage from _ lungs.
Asthma in aged with blue skin,

Extremities. — Heavy, stiff; feel paralyzed; limbs, go
to sleep; want of muscular energy; joints weak. Tain
in shins. Cramp in soles: feet numb and sweaty, Cold
from krees down. Toes red, swollen.

Fever. — Coldness, with thirst. Chill begins in fore-
arm. Burning in various places. Perspiration on eat-
ing. Hectic fever, exhausting sweats.

Skin. — Blue, cold, ecchymcsed. Itching; worse in
evening, when warm in bed. Moist skin; hot perspira-
tion; senile gangrene beginning in toes; bed sores;
bleed easily. Falling out of hair, from a general weak-
ened condition. Indolent ulcers, burning pain, Ichor-
ous, offensive discharge; tendency to gangrene of the
margins. Purpura, Varicose ulcers, carbuncles. [Ars.;
Anthrac.] :

Modalities. — Worse, evening; from fat food, butter,
coffee, milk, warm damp weather; wine. Better, from
eructation, from fanning, cold.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Spirits Nitre; Camph.;
Ambra; Arsenic.

Compare: Lycop.; Ars.; China,

Complementary: Kali carb.; Dros.
200 CARBO VEGETABILIS — CARBOLICUM ACIDUM

Dose. — First to third trituration in stomach dis-
orders. Thirtieth potency and higher in chronic con-
ditions, and in collapse.

CARBOLICUM ACIDUM
(Phenol — Carbolic Acid)

Carbolic Acid is a powerful irritant and anesthetic.
Stupor, paralysis of sensation and motion, feeble pulse
and depressed breathing, death due to paralysis of respi-
ratory centres. Acts primarily on the central nervous
system,

Produces mental and bodily languor, disinclination
to study, with headache like a band. Very marked
acuteness of smell is a strong guiding symptom.
Stomach symptoms are also important, Tains are ter-
rible; come and go suddenly. Physical exertion brings
on abscess somewhere. Putrid discharges. [Bapt.]
Scarlet fever, with marked tendency to destruction of
tissue internally, and fetid odor. Spasmodic coughs.

Head. — Disinclined to mental work. Tight feeling,
as if compressed by a rubber band. [Gels.; Mahonia.]
Orbital neuralgia over right eye. Headache, better, by
green tea; while smoking,

Nose. — Smell very acute. Putrid discharge. Ozzna,

with fetor and ulceration, Influenza and resulting de-
bility. ([Bapt.; Nat. sulph,]
_ Throat.— Ulcerated patches on inside of lips and
cheeks. Burning in mouth to stomach. Fauces red, and
covered with exudation. Uvula whitened and shriveled.
Putrid discharge. Almost impossible to swallow. Diph-
theria, fetid breath, regurgitation on swallowing liquids,
but Httle pain. [Bapt.] Face dusky red; white about
mouth and nose. Rapid sinking of vital forces.
CARBOLICUM ACIDUM 201

Stomach. — Appetite lost. Desire for stimulants and
tobacco. Constant belching, nausea, vomiting, dark
olive green. Heat rises up cesophagus. Flatulent dis-
tention of stomach and abdomen. Painful flatulence
often marked in one part of the bowel. [Sulpho-Car-
bolate of Soda.

Stool. — Constipation, with very offensive breath.
Bloody, like scrapings of intestines. Great tenesmus.
Diarrhcea; stools thin, black, putrid.

Urine. — Almost black. Diabetes. Irritable bladder
in old men with frequent urination at night, of prob-
able prostatic nature.

Female. — Discharges always offensive. [Nitr. ac.;
Nux.v.; Sep.) Pustules about vulva containing bloody
pus. Agonizing backache across loins, with dragging-
down thighs. Pain in left ovary; worse walking in
open air. Erosicns of cervix; fetid, acrid discharge.
Levcorrheea in children. [Cann. s.; Merc.; Puls.;
Sep.) Puerperal fever, with offensive discharge. Ir-
ritating leucorrhoea, causing itching and burning.
tKreos.] .

Extremities. — Cramps in fore part of leg, close to
tibia during walking. Gnawing pains in shin bones.

Skin. — Itching vesicles, with burning pain. Burns
tend to ulcerate.

Relationship. — Compare: Chrysarobin (locally in
ringworm of the scalp 5-10 per cent. in glycerine and
alcohol. Equal parts). Ars.; Kreosot.; Carbo; Guano.
(Violent headache as from a band around head. Itch-
ing of nostrils, hack, thighs, genitals. Symptoms like
hay-fever.)

Antidote: Vinegar; Chalk; Iod.

Incompatible: Glycerine and vegetable oils.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.
202 CARBONEUM

CARBONEUM HYDROGENISATUM
(Carburetted Hydrogen)

Symptoms resemble an apopletic attack. Spasm as
in lock-jaw.

Mind. — Stupefaction. Extraordinary sensation of
contentment, All thoughts appear in a moment as if
seen in an inner mirror.

Eyes. — Lids half closed. Oscillation of eyeballs.

CARBONEUM OXYGENISATUM
(Carbonous Oxide)

Herpes zoster, pemphigus, and trismus are produced
by this drug. Coldness, sleepiness, loss of conscious-
ness are marked.

Head. — Inclination to turn in a cirele. Jaws firmly
clenched, Trismus,

Skin. — Anzsthesia; vesication along course of nerves;
herpes zoster; pemphigus, with large and small vesicles.
Hand icy cold.

Sleep.-- Deep. Prolonged; sleepiness for several
days.

Dose. — First attenuation.

CARBONEUM SULPHURATUM
(Alcohol Sulphuris—Bisulphide of Carbon)

This drug has a deep and disorganizing action and
am immense range of action judging from the symp-
tomatologv. Very useful in patients broken down by
abuse of alcchol. Sensitive patients worse cold, wasted
muscles, and skin and mucous membranes anesthetic.
CARBONEUM SULPHURATUM 203

Special affinity for eyes. Chronic rheumatism, sen-
sitive and cold, Lack of vital heat. Diarrhoea every
four to six weeks. Paralysis with intense congestion
of nerve centres,

Impotence, sciatica, come within the therepeutic sphere
of this remedy, Chronic plumbism. Marked action on
the vision. Diminished sensibility of arms, hands and
feet. Peripheral neuritis. Eye symptoms important.

Mind. — Irritable, anxious, intolerant; stupor. Slug-
gishness of mind. Hallucinations of sight and hearing.
Changeable mood. Dementia alternating with excite-
ment.

Head. — Aches as from a tight cap. Ears feel ob-
structed. Noises in head. Ulceration of the lips, anas-
thesia of mouth and tongue.

Eyes.— Myopia, asthenopia, and dis-chromotopsia,
cloudiness and atrophy of optic disc and centrol scotoma
for light and colors. Arteries and veins congested.
Retinal congestion; optic disc pale. Everything seems
in a fog. Vision greatly impaired. Color-blindness.

Ears.— Hearing impaired. Buzzing and singing
noises like an zolian harp. Tinnitus aurium. Meniere’s
disease,

Abdomen. — Pain with wandering swellings as from
fiatus. Distention. with soreness and rumbling.

Male. — Desire lost, parts atrophied. Frequent profuse
emissions.

Extremities. — Sore, bruised limbs; anzsthesia of
arms and hands. Cramps in limbs. Lightning-like
pains, with cramps. Fingers swollen, insensible, rigid,
stiff. Gait unsteady, tottering; worse in dark. Feet
insensible. Sciatica. Flying pains, returning regularly
204 CARBONEUM SULPH.—CARDUUS MARIANUS

for a long time. Pain in lower limbs, with cramps and
formication.

Sleep. — Deep morning sleep with anxious, vexatious
dreams.

Skin. — Anesthesia; burning; itching; ulcers; small
wounds fester. Useful to restrain the growth of can-
cer. [Graphites.]

Modalities. — Better, in open air. H’orsc, after break-
fast; hathing. Sensitive to warm, damp, weather.

Relationship. — Compare: Tuberculin; Radium;
Caust.; Salicyl. ac.; Cinch, In eye symptoms compare:
Benzin, dinitric,

Dose. — First attenuation. Locally in facial neuralgia
and sciatica.

CARDUUS MARIANUS
(St. Mary’s Thistle)

The action of this drug is centered in the liver, and
portal system, causing soreness, pain, jaundice. Has
specific relation to the vascular system. Abuse of
alcoholic beverages, especially beer. f7aricose veins
and ulcers. Diseases of miners, associated with asthma.
Dropsical conditions depending on liver disease, and
when due to pelvic congestion and hepatic disease. In-
fluenza when liver is affected. Debility.

Mind. — Despondency; forgetful, apathetic.

Head.— Contractive feeling above eyebrows. Dull
heavy, stupid, with foul tongue. Vertigo, with ten-
dency to fall forward. Burning and pressure in eyes.

Stomach. — Taste bitter Aversion to salt meat. Ap-
petite small; tongue furred; nausea; vomiting of green,
acid fluid. Stitches in left side of stomach, near spleen.
[Ceanoth.]
CARDUUS MARIANUS — CARLSBAD 205

Abdomen. — Pain in region of liver. Left lobe very
sensitive. Fullness and soreness, with moist skin. Con-
stipation; stools hard, difficult, knotty; alternates with
diarrhea. Stools bright yellow. Swelling of gall blad-
der with painful tenderness. Hyperemia of liver, with
jaundice. Cirrhosis, with dropsy.

Urine. — Cloudy; golden-colored.

Chest. — Stitching pains in lower right ribs and front;
worse, moving. walking, etc. .4sthmatic respisation.
Pain in chest, going to shoulders, back, loins, and ab-
domen, with urging to urinate.

Skin. — Itching on lying down at night. Varicose
ulcers. [Clematis vitalba.] Eruption on lower part of
sternum.

Extremities. — Pain in hip-joint, spreading through
buttocks; wrose from stooping. Difficult rising.

Relationship. —— Compare: Curd. benedictus (strong
action on eyes, and sensation of contraction in many
parts; stomach symptoms similar) ; Chelidon.; Chionan-
thes; Merc.; Podophyl.; Bry.; Aloe.

Dose. — Tincture and lower potencies.

CARLSBAD
(The Waters of the Sprudel Springs)

Famous for its action on the liver and in the treat-
ment of obesity, diabetes, and gout. In homeopathic
potencies useful in weakness of all organs, constipa-
tion, great liability to take cold. Periodicity, effect®
repeated after from two to four weeks. [O-al. ac.;
Sulph.} Flashes of heat alt over. Itching on various
parts.

Mind. —- Discouraged and anxious about domestic
duties. ;
206 CARLSBAD — CASCARA SAGRADA

Head. — Aches, with swollen temporal veins [Sang.];
better, motion, in open air.

Face. — Yellow; sallow; red and hot; pain in zygo-
matic process; feels as if cobwcbs were on it.

Stomach. — Tongue coated white. Offensive smell
from mouth. Furry sensation, Sour or salty taste.
Hiccough and yawning. Heartburn. [Carbo.]

Urine. — Stream weak and slow; only passed by press-
ing abdominal muscles.

Rectum. —I’eces held back. Stool slow, and only
passed by much abdominal pressure. Burning in rec-
tum and anus. Bleeding piles.

Relationship. — Compare: Nat. sulph.; Nux.

Dose. — Lower potencies.

CASCARA SAGRADA
(Sacred Bark}

Introduced as a palliative for constipation (non-
homeecpathic), fifteen drops of fluid extract; but it
has a wider sphere of action, as careful provings will
show.

Head. — Gastric headache, Broad, flabby tongue; foul
breath. Hemorrhoids and constrpation.

Urine. — Must wait for minute before flew starts then
first in drops.
4+ Extremities. — Rheumatism of muscles and joints,
with obstinate constipation.

Relationship.— Compare: Hyd.; Nux.; Rhamnus
Californica (tincture for constipation; tympanites and
appendicitis and especially rheumatism).

Dose. — First to sixth potency.
206 CARLSBAD — CASCARA SAGRADA

Head. — Aches, with swollen temporal veins [Sang.];
better, motion, in open air.

Face. — Yellow; sallow; red and hot; pain in zygo-
matic process; feels as if cobwcbs were on it.

Stomach. — Tongue coated white. Offensive smell
from mouth. Furry sensation, Sour or salty taste.
Hiccough and yawning. Heartburn. [Carbo.]

Urine. — Stream weak and slow; only passed by press-
ing abdominal muscles.

Rectum. —I’eces held back. Stool slow, and only
passed by much abdominal pressure. Burning in rec-
tum and anus. Bleeding piles.

Relationship. — Compare: Nat. sulph.; Nux.

Dose. — Lower potencies.

CASCARA SAGRADA
(Sacred Bark}

Introduced as a palliative for constipation (non-
homeecpathic), fifteen drops of fluid extract; but it
has a wider sphere of action, as careful provings will
show.

Head. — Gastric headache, Broad, flabby tongue; foul
breath. Hemorrhoids and constrpation.

Urine. — Must wait for minute before flew starts then
first in drops.
4+ Extremities. — Rheumatism of muscles and joints,
with obstinate constipation.

Relationship.— Compare: Hyd.; Nux.; Rhamnus
Californica (tincture for constipation; tympanites and
appendicitis and especially rheumatism).

Dose. — First to sixth potency.
CASCARILLA —— CARCINOSIN 207

CASCARILLA
(Sweet Bark)

Acts on the digestive tract; constipation. Aversion
to smell of tobacco. Jnclination to vomit very marked.

Stomach.— Hunger after meals. Desire for hot
drinks. Nausea and vomiting. Pain in stomach as
from a shock, Pressing colic.

Rectum. — Constipation; stools hard, covered with
mucus. [Graph.] Bright blood with stool. Diarrhoea
alternating with hard, lumpy stool, with backache and
lassitude, preceded by griping. Gnawing pain high up
in rectum.

Dose. — First to third potency.

CARCINOSIN
(A Nosode from Carcinoma)

It is claimed the Carcinosin acts favorably and modi-
fies alf cases in which either a history of carcinoma can
be elicited, or symptoms of the disease itself exist.
(J. H. Clarke, M.D.)

Carcinoma of the mammary glands with great pain
and induration of glands; of uterus, the offensive dis-
charge, hemorrhage and pain are greatly relieved.

Indigestion, accumulation of gas in stomach and
bowels; rheumatism — Cancerous cachexia.

Relationship. — Compare: Bufo; Conium; Phytolacca,
Asterias.

Dose. — Thirtieth and 200th potency, a dose at night
or less frequently.
208 CASTANEA VESCA — CASTOR EQUI— CASTOREUM

CASTANEA VESCA
(Chestnut Leaves)

A useful remedy in whooping-cough, especially in the
early stage, with dry, ringing, violent, spasmodic cough.
Desire for warm drinks. Very thirsty. Loss of ap-
petite. Diarrhea. Thick urine,

Lumbago, weak back, can hardly straighten up.

Relationship. — Compare: Pertussin — Whooping-
cough (when symptoms return again after being
allayed. Dros.; Mephitis; Naphthal.; Ammon, brom.

Dose. — Tincture.

CASTOR EQUI
(Rudimentary Thumb-nail of the Horse)

General action on thickening of the skin and epi-
thelium. Psoriasis lingua. The clinical experience of
Iiering and his fellow-provers has shown this to be a
highly useful remedy in cracked and ulcerated nippls.
Affects principally female organs. Acts on the nails
and bones; pain in right tibia and coccyx. Warts on
forehead. Warts on breast. Chapped hands,

Chest. — Cracked, sore nipples, excessively tender.
Swelling of mamme. Violent itching in breasts; areola
reddened.

Relationship.-— Compare: Graphites; Hippomanes;
Cale. oval.

Dose. — Sixth and twelfth potency.

CASTOREUM
(The Beaver)

A great remedy for hysteria. Prostration marked.
Hysterical symptoms. Day-blindness; cannot endure
the light. Nervous women who do not recover fully,
CASTOREUM — CAULOPHYLLUM 209

but are continually irritable, and suffer from debilitating
sweats. Spasmodic affections after debilitating dis-
eases. Constant yawning. Restless sleep with frightful
dreams and starts.

Tongue. — Swollen. Rounded elevation size of a
pea in center, with drawing sensation from center tu
hyoid bone,

Female. -—- Dysmenorrhea; blood discharged in
drops with tenesmus. Pain commences in middle of
thighs. Amenorrheea, with painful tympanites.

Fever — Predominant chilliness. Attacks of chilli-
ness with ice-coldness in back.

Relationship. — Compare: Ambra; Moschus; Mur.
acid; Valeriana,

Antidote: Colch.

Dose. — Tincture, and lower potencies.

CAULOPHYLUM
(Blue Cohosh)

This is a woman’s remedy. Want of tonicity of the
womb. During labor, when the pains are deficient and
the patient is exhausted and fretful. Besides, it has
a special affinity for the smaller joints. Thrush, locally
and internally.

Stomach. — Cardialgia, spasms of stomach. Dyspepsia
with spasmodic symptoms,

Female, — Extraordinary rigidity of os. [Bell.; Gels.;
Ver. v.] Spasmodic and severe pains, which fly in all
directions; shivering, without progress; false pains.
[Bell.; Cimicif.; Gels.; Nux v.; Puls.) After pains.
Leucorrhoea, with moth-sputs on forehead. Habitual
abortion from uterine debility. [Helon.; Puls.; Sab.]
210 CAULOPHYLUM—CAUSTICUM

Needle-like pains in cervix. Dysmenorrhcea, with pains
flying to other parts of body. Lochia protracted; great
atony. Menses and leucorrhoea profuse.

Skin. — Discoloration of skin in women with men-
strual and uterine disorder.

Extremities. — Severe drawing, cratic pain and stiff-
ness in small joints, fingers, toes, ankles, etc. Aching
in wrists. Cutting pains on closing hands. Erratic
pains, changing place every few minutes.

Relationship. — Incompatible: Coffea.

Compare: Viol. Odor. (rheumatic carpal and meta-
carpal joints) ; Cimicif.; Sepia; Pulsat.; Gels.

Dose. — Tincture to third attenuation.

CAUSTICUM
(Hahnemann’s Tinctura acris sine Kali)

Manifests its action mainly in chronic rheumatic,
arthritic and paralytic affections, indicated by the tear-
ing, drawing pains in the muscular and fibrous tissues,
with deformities about the joints; progressive loss of
muscular strength, tendinous contractures. Broken
down seniles. In catarrhal affections of the air passages,
and seems to choose preferably dark-complexioned and
rigid-fibered persons. Restlessness at night, with tear-
ing pains in joints and bones, and faint-like sinking of
strength. The skin of a Causticum person is of a
dirty white sallow, with warts, especially on the face.
Emaciation due to disease, worry, etc, and of long
standing. Burning, rawness, and soreness are charac-
teristic.

Mind. —- Child does not want to go to bed alone.
Least thing makes it cry. Sad, hopeless, Intensely
sympathetic. Ailments from long-lasting grief, sudden
CAUSTICUM 211

emotions. Thinking of complaints, aggravates, espe-
cially hemorrhoids.

Head. — Sensation of empty space between forehead
and brain. Pain in right frontal eminence.

Face. — Paralysis of right side. Warts. Pain in
facial bones, Dental fistula. Pain in jaws, with diffi-
culty in opening mouth,

Eyes. — Cataract with motor disturbances. Inflam-
mation of eyelids; ulceration. Sparks and dark spots
before eyes. Ptosis. [Gels.] Vision impaired, as if film
were before eyes. Paralysis of ocular muscles after
exposure to cold.

Ears. — Ringing, roaring, pulsating, with deafness;
words and steps re-echo; chronic middle-ear catarrh;
accumulation of ear-wax.

Nose. — Corysa, with hoarseness. Scaly nose. Nos-
trils ulcerated. Pimples and warts,

Mouth. — Bites inside of cheek from chewing. Pa-
ralysis of tongue, with indistinct speech. Rheumatism
of articulation of lower jaw. Gums bleed easily.

Stomach. — Greasy taste. Aversion to sweets. Feels
as if lime were burned in stomach. Worse after eating
fresh meat; smoked meat agrees. Sensation of ball
rising in throat. Acid dyspepsia.

Stool.— Soft and small, size of goose-quill.
[Phos.] Hard, tough, covered with mucus; shines like
grease; small-shaped; expelled with much straining, or
only on standing up. Pruritus. Partial paralysis of
rectum. Rectum sore and burns, Fistula and large piles.

Urine.— Involuntary when coughing, sheezing.
[Puls.] Expelled very slowly, and sometimes retained.
Involuntary during first sleep at night; also from slight-
est excitement, Retention after surgical operations.
Loss of sensibility on passing urine.
212 CAUSTICUM

Female. -- Uterine inertia during labor. [Kali c.]
Menses cease at night; flow only during day. [Cyel.;
Puls.) | Leucorrhcea at night, with great weakness.
[Nat. mur.] Menses delay, late. [Con.; Graph.; Puls.]

Respiratory. — Hoarseness in morning, with pain in
chest; aphonia, Larynx sore. Cough, wilh raw sorc-
ness of chest. Expectoration scanty; must be swal-
lowed. Cough with pain in hip, especially leit worse in
evening ; better, drinking cold water; worse, warmth of
bed, Sore streak down trachea. Mucus under sternum,
which he cannot quite reach. Hoarseness in evening.
Pain in chest, with palpitation. Cannot lie down at
night.

Back. — Stiffness between shoulders. Dull pain in
nape of neck.

Extremities. — Left-sided sciatica, with numbness.
Paralysis of single parts. Dull, tearing pain in hands
and arms. Heaviness and weakness ‘Tearing joints.
Unsteadiness of muscles of forcarm and hand. Numb-
ness; loss of sensation in hands. Contracted tendons.
Weak ankles. Cannot walk without suffering. Rheu-
matic tearing in limbs; better by warmth, especially
heat of bed. Burning in joints. Slow in learning to
walk. Unsteady walking and easily falling. Restless
legs at night. Cracking and tension in knees; stiffness
in hollow of knee. Itching on dorsum of feet.

Skin. — Soreness in folds of skin, back of ears, be-
tween thighs. Warts large, jagged, bleeding easily,
on tips of fingers and nose. Old burns that do not get
well, and ill effects from burns. Pains of burns. Cica-
trices freshen up; old injuries reopen. Skin prone to
intertrigo during dentition.

‘Sleep.— Very drowsy; can hardly keep awake.
Nocturnal sleeplessness, with dry heat, inquietude.

’ Relationship. — Causticum does not agree with Phos-
CAUSTICUM — CEANOTHUS 213

phorus; the remedies should not be used after each
other. Diphtherotoxin follows, causticum in chronic
bronchitis.

Antidote: Paralysis from lead-poisoning.

Complementary: Carbo: Petrosel.

Compare: Rhus; Arsenic; Amm. phos. (facial pa-
ralysis).

Modalities. — Worse, dry, cold winds, in clear, fine
weather, cold air; from motion of carriage. Better, in
damp, wei weather; warmth,

Dose. — Third to thirtieth attenuation. In chronic
ailments and especially in paralytic states, the higher
potencies once or twice a week.

CEANOTHUS
(New Jersey Tea)

This remedy seems to possess a specific relation to
the spleen. Ague cake of malaria. A left-sided rem-
edy generally. Anzmic patients where liver and spleen
are at fault. Chronic bronchitis with profuse secretion.

Abdomen. — Enormous enlargement of the spleen.
Splenitis; pain all up the left side. Violent dyspnoea.
Menses profuse, and yellow weakening leucorrhcea.
Unable to lie on left side. Pain in liver and back.

Rectum, — Diarrhcea; bearing down in abdomen and
rectum.

Urine. — Green; frothy; contains bile, sugar.

Relationship.— Compare: Tinospora cordifolia (a
Hindoo medicine for chronic cases of fever with en-
larged spleen). Polymnia uvedalia (acute splenitis
with tenderness over left hypochondriac region; spleen
enlarged, ague cake. Vascular atony, tissues sodden,
flabby and non-elastic. Enlarged glands; influences all
ductless glands.)
214 CEANOTHUS — CEDRON

Compare: Berberis; Myrica; Cedron.
Modalities. — Worse, motion, lying on left side.
Dose. — First attenuation. Locally as hair tonic.

CEDRON —SIMABA CEDRON
(Rattlesnake Bean)

Periodicity is the most marked characteristic of this
drug. Is particularly useful in tropical or in damp,
warm, marshy countries. It has been found curative in
malarial affections, especially neuralgia. Adapted to
persons of a voluptuous disposition, excitable, nervous
temperament. Has powers of antidoting snake-bites
and stings of insects. Tincture of pure bean scraped
on wound.

Head.— Pain from temple to temple across eyes.
Pain over whole right side of face, coming on about
9. a.m. Crazy feeling frum paiu across forehead; worse,
working on black. Roaring in ears produced by Cin-
chona. Whole body seems numb with headache.

Eyes. — Shooting over left eye. Severe pain in eye-
ball, with radiating pains around eye, shooting into nose.
Scalding lachrymation. Supra-orbital neuralgia periodic.
Iritis, choroiditis.

Extremities. — Lancinating pain in joints; worse,
feet and hands. Sudden pain in ball of right thumb, ex-
tending up arm to shoulder. Pain in ball of right foot,
extending to knee. Shingles, with radiating pain.
Dropsy of knee-joint.

Fever. — Chilliness towards evening; then frontal
headache extending into parietal region. Red eyes.
Heat, with itching of eyes, tearing pain in limbs, numb-
neds of limbs.
CEDRON-——CENCHRIS CON.—CEREUS BON, 215

Relationship. — Antidote: Lach,
Compare: Ars.; China.
Dose. — Tincture to third attenuation.

CENCHRIS CONTORTRIX — ANCISTRODON
(Copperhead Snake)

Like the other snake poisons, it affects the system
profoundly. Like arsenic, it has dyspnoea, mental and
physical restlessness, thirst for small quantities of
water, necessity for having clothing loose, like Laches.
Marked alternation of moods; vivid dreams. Is a won-
derful restorative and deep acting remedy. Increased
sexual desire in both sexes. Ineffectual attempts to
recline. Right ovarian region painful.

Head. — Forgetful, absent-minded, alternating moods.
Aching pain in left frontal eminence and left side of
teeth. Swelling around eyes, aching and itching in
eyes.

Heart. — Feels distended, fills whole chest, as if it
fell down in abdomen; sharp stitches, fluttering under
left scapula.

Sleep. — Dreams horrible and vivid; lascivious.

Modalities. — Worse, pressure; lying down; afternoon
and night.

Relationship. — Compare: Ars., Laches.

Dose. — Sixth potency.

CEREUS BONPLANDII
(A Night-blooming Cereus)

Mind, — Great desire to work and to be doing some-
thing useful.

Head. — Occipital headache and pain through the
globe of the eyes and orbits. [Cedron; Onos.]. Pain
216 CEREUS BONPLANDII — CEREUM OXALICUM

across the brain from left to right. Pain along right
malar bone running to temple.

Chest. — Convulsive pains at the heart; feels as if
transfixed. Pain in chest through heart, with pain run-
ning toward spleen. Pain in left pectoral muscle and
cartilages of left lower ribs. Sensation of a great
weight on heart, and pricking pain. Hypertrophy of
heart. Difficult, sighing respiration, as from some com-
pression of chest, 7

Skin. — Itching of skin. [Dolich.; Sulph.]

Extremities. — Pain in neck, back, shoulders, down
arms, hands and fingers. Pain in knees and joints of
lower extremities.

Relationship. — Compare: Cactus; Spigel.; Kalmia;
Cereus serpentinus. (Paralyzed feeling. Pains in
heart, and dwindling of sexual organs. Emissions, fol-
lowed by pain in testicles.)

Dose. -— Third to sixth attenuation.

CERIUM OXALICUM
(Oxalate of Cerium)

Spasmodic reflex vomiting and spasmodic cough are
within the sphere of this remedy. Vomiting of preg-
nancy, and of half-digested food. Whooping cough,
with vomiting and hemorrhage. Dysmenorrhza in
fleshy, robust women. Better when flow is established.
[Lach.]

Relationship. — Compare: Amygdal.; Lactic ac.;
Ipecac.

Dose, —- First trituration.
216 CEREUS BONPLANDII — CEREUM OXALICUM

across the brain from left to right. Pain along right
malar bone running to temple.

Chest. — Convulsive pains at the heart; feels as if
transfixed. Pain in chest through heart, with pain run-
ning toward spleen. Pain in left pectoral muscle and
cartilages of left lower ribs. Sensation of a great
weight on heart, and pricking pain. Hypertrophy of
heart. Difficult, sighing respiration, as from some com-
pression of chest, 7

Skin. — Itching of skin. [Dolich.; Sulph.]

Extremities. — Pain in neck, back, shoulders, down
arms, hands and fingers. Pain in knees and joints of
lower extremities.

Relationship. — Compare: Cactus; Spigel.; Kalmia;
Cereus serpentinus. (Paralyzed feeling. Pains in
heart, and dwindling of sexual organs. Emissions, fol-
lowed by pain in testicles.)

Dose. -— Third to sixth attenuation.

CERIUM OXALICUM
(Oxalate of Cerium)

Spasmodic reflex vomiting and spasmodic cough are
within the sphere of this remedy. Vomiting of preg-
nancy, and of half-digested food. Whooping cough,
with vomiting and hemorrhage. Dysmenorrhza in
fleshy, robust women. Better when flow is established.
[Lach.]

Relationship. — Compare: Amygdal.; Lactic ac.;
Ipecac.

Dose, —- First trituration.
CHAMOMILLA 217

CHAMOMILLA
(German Chamomile)

The chief guiding symptoms belong to the mental and
emotion group, which lead to this remedy in many
forms of disease. Especially of frequent employment
in diseases of children, where peevishness, restlessness,
and colic give the needful indications.

Chamomnilla is sensitive, irritable, thirsty, hot, and
numb. Oversensitiveness from abuse of coffee and nar-
cotics. Pains unendurable, associated with numbness.
Night-sweats.

Mind. -— Vhining restlessness. Child wants many
things which he refuses again. Piteous moaning he-
cause he cannot have what he wants. Child can only
he quieted when carried about and petted constantly.
Impalient, intolerant of being svoken to or interrupted;
extremely sensitive to every pain; always complain-
ing. Spiteful, snappish. Complaints from anger. A/en-
tal calmness contraindicatcs Chamom.,

Head.— Throbbing headache in one-half of the
brain. Inclined to bend head backward. Hot, clammy
sweat on forehead and scalp.

Ears. — Ringing in ears. Farache, with soreness;
swelling and heat driving patient frantic. Stitching
pain, Ears feel stopped.

Eyes. — Lids smart. Yellow sclerotic. Spasmodic
closing of lids.

Nose. — Sensitive to all smells. Coryza, with inabil-
ity to sleep.
Face. — One cheek red and hot; the other pale and

cold. Stitches in jaw extending to inner ear and teeth.
Teeth ache worse after warm drink; worse, coffee, at
218 CHAMOMILLA

night. Drives to distraction. Jerking of tongue and
facial muscles. Distress of teething children. [Calc.
phos.; Terebinth,]

Throat. — Parotid and submaxillary glands swollen.
Constriction and pain as from a plug.

Mouth. — Toothache, if anything warm is taken,
from coffee, during pregnancy. Nightly salivation.

Stomach. — Eructations, foul. Nausea after coffee.
Sweats after eating or drinking. Aversion to warm
drinks. Tongue yellow; taste bitter. Bilious vomiting.
Acid rising; regurgitation of food. Bitter, bilious
vomiting. Pressive gastralgia, as from a stone. [Bry.;
Abies n.

Abdomen. — Distended. Griping in region of navel,
and pain in small of back. Flatulent colic, after anger,
with red checks and hot perspiration. Hepatic colic.
Acute duodenitis. Kali hich. (chronic).

Stool. — Hot, green, watery, fetid, slimy, with colic.
Chopped white and yellow mucus like chopped eggs
and spinach. Soreness of anus. Diarrhoea during den-
tition. Hemorrhoids, with painful fissures.

Female. — Uterine hemorrhages. Profuse discharge
of clotted, dark blood, with labor-like pains. Labor
pains spasmodic; press upward. [Gels.] Patient in-
tolerant of pain. [Caul.; Caus:.; Gels.; Hyos.; Puls.]
Nipples inflamed; tender to touch. Infants’ breasts
tender. Yellow, acrid leucorrhcea. [Ars.; Sep.;
Sulph.)

Respiratory. — Hoarseness, hawking, rawness of
larynx. Irritable, dry, tickling cough; suffocative tight-
ness of chest, with bitter expectoration in daytime.
Rattling of mucus in child’s chest.

Extremities. — Violent rheumatic pains drive him out
of bed at night; compelled to walk about. Burning of
CHAMOMILLA — CHAPARRO AM.—CHEL, MAJ. 219

soles at night. [Sulph.] Ankles give way in the after-
noon. Nightly paralytic loss of power in the feet, un-
able to step on them.

Sleep. — Moaning, weeping and wailing during sleep;
anxious, frightened dreams, with half-open eyes.

Modalities. — Worse, by heat, anger, open air, wind,
night. Better, from being carried, warm wet weather.

Relationship. — Compare: Coca; Anthemis; Aconite;
Puls.; Coffea; Bellad.; Staphis.; Ignat. Follows Belia-
donna in diseases of children and abuse of opium.

Antidotes: Camph.; Nux; Puls.

Complementary: Bell.; Mag. c.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth attenuation.

CHAPARRO AMARGOSO
(Goat-bush)

Chronic diarrhoea. Tenderness over liver. Stools.
little pain, but with much mucus. Dysentery. Acts
as a tonic and antiperiodic.

Compare: Kali carb.; Cup, ars.; Caps.

Dose. — Third attenuation.

CHELIDONIUM MAJUS
(Celandine)

A prominent liver remedy, covering many of the
direct reflex symptoms of diseased conditions of that
organ. The jaundiced skin, and especially the constant
pain under inferior angle of right scapula, are certain
indications. Paralytic drawing and lameness in single
parts. The great general lethargy and indisposition to
make any effort is also inarked. Ailments brought on
220 CHELIDONIUM MAJUS

or renewed by change of weather. Scrous effusions.
Hydrocele. Bilious complications during gestation.

Head. — Icy coldness of occiput from the nape of
neck; fecls heavy as lead. Heavy, lethargic; drowsiness
very marked, with general numbness; vertigo, asso-
ciated with heptic disturbance. Inclination to fall for-
ward. Right-sided headache*‘down behind ears and
shoulder-blade. Neuralgia over right cyc, right cheek-
bone and right ear, with excessive lachrymation, pre-
ceded by pain in liver,

Nose. — Flabbing of ala nasi. [Lyc.]

Eyes. — Dirty yellow color of whites. Sore sensation
on Jooking up. Tears fairly gush out. Orbital neu-
ralgia of right eye, with profuse lachrymation; pupils
contracted, relieved by pressure.

Face. — }cllow,; worse nose and cheeks. Wilted skin.

Stomach. — Tongue yellow, with imprint of teeth;
large and flabby. [Alerc.; Hyd.] Taste bitter, pasty.
Bad odor from mouth, Prefers hot food and drink.
Nausea, vomiting; bettcr, very hot water. Pain through
stomach to back and right shoulder-blade. Gastralgia.
Eating rclicves temporarily, especially when accom-
paried with hepatic symptoms.

Abdomen, — Jaundice due to hepatic and gall-bladder
obstruction. Gall-colic. Distention. Fermentation and
sluggish bowels. Constriction across, as by a string.
Liver enlarged. Gallstones. [Berberis.]

Urine. -— Profuse, foaming, yellow urine, like beer.
[Chenop.] Urine dark, yellow, turbid.

Stool — Constipation; stools hard, round balls, like
sheep's dung, bright yellow, pasty: clay-colored, stools
float in water; alternation of diarrhaa and constipation.
Burning and itching of anus. [Ratanh.; Sulph.;
Teucr.]
CHELIDONIUM MAJUS 221

Female. — Menses too late and too profuse.

Respiratory. — Very quick and short inspirations ; 4 pain
on deep inspiration. Dyspneea. Whooping-cough :
spasmodic cough; loose, rattling; expectoration difh-
cult. Pain in right side of chest and shoulder, with em-
barrassed respiration. Small lumps of mucus fly from
mouth when coughing. Hoarse in afternoon. Con-
striction of chest.

Back. — Pain in nape. Stiff neck, head drawn to left.
Fixed pain under inner and lower angle of right scapula.
Pain at lowe: angle of left scapula.

Extremities. — Pain in arms, shoulders, hands, tips of
fingers. Jcy coldness of tips of fingers; wrists sore,
tearing in metacarpal bones. Whole flesh sore to touch.
Rheumatic pain in hips and thighs; intolerable pains in
heels, as if pinched by too narrow a shoe; worse, right.
Feels paralyzed. Paresis of the ower limbs with rigid-
ity of muscles.

Skin. — Dry heat of skin; itches, yellow. Painful red
pimples and pustules. Old, spreading, offensive ulcers.
Wilted skin. Sallow, cold, clammy.

Modalities. — Worse, right side, motion, touch, change
of weather, very early in morning. Better, after din-
ner, from pressure.

Relationship. — Boldo — Boldea fragrans — (Bladder
atony; cholecystitis and biliary calculus. Disturbed liver
following malaria),

Sulph often completes its work.

Complementary: Lycop.; Bryon.

Antidote: Chamom.

Compare: Nux; Sulph.; Bry.; Lyc.; Opium; Podo-
phyl.; Sanguin.; Ars.

Dose. — Tincture and lower attenuations.
222 CHENOPODIUM ANTHEL — CHENOP. GLAUCI APHIS

CHENOPODIUM ANTHELMINTICUM
See 9.776. (Jerusalem Oak)

Characteristic pain in scapula very marked. Symp-
toms of apoplexy, right hemiplegia, and aphasia. Ster-
torous breathing. [Opium.] Sudden vertigo. Meniere’s
disease. Affections of auditory nerves. [Nat. salicyl.]
Oil of Chenopodium for hookworm and roundworm.

Ears. — Torpor of auditory nerve. Hearing better for
high-pitched sounds. Comparative deafness to sound
of voice, but great sensitiveness to sound, as of pass-
ing vehicles and also a shrinking from low tones. Buzz~
ing in ears. Enlargement of tonsils. Aural vertigo.

Back. —Intense pain between angle of right shoulder-
blade near spine, and through the chest.

Urine, — Copious, yellow, foaming urine, with acrid
sensation in urethra. Yellowish sediment. [Chel.]

Relationship. — Compare: Chenopod. cum Terebinth.;
Opium; China; Chelid.

Dose. — Third potency. Oil of Chenopodium for hook.
worm, 10 minim doses every 2 hours for 3 doses.

CHENOPODII GLAUCI APHIS
(Plant-lice from Chenopodium)

Head.— Sad; aching, worse from motion. Brain
seems swashed hither and thither. Coryza, with burn-
ing or biting in nostrils. Noise in ears, as of cannon.
Yellow face. Orbital right neuralgia, with profuse
lachrymation. Toothache, relieved by general warm
sweat. [Cham.} Toothache extends to ear, temple, and
cheek-bone. [Plantago.]

Stomach. — No appetite for meat and bread. Vesi-
cles at end of tongue. Much mucus.
CHENOPODII GLA, APH. — CHELONE — CHIM. UMB, 223

Stools.— Hard and knotty. Diarrhcee in morning,
with painful urging and burning in anus, and pressure
in rectum and bladder.

Urine. — Voluptuous feeling in glans. Burning in
urethra, Urination frequent, copious, frothy.

Back. — Severe pains in region of lower inner angle
of left shoulder-blade, running into chest.

Fever, — Shuddering all over; burning in palms; hot
sweat in bed.

Relationship. — Compare: Nat. sulph.; Nux.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

CHELONE
(Snakehead)

A remedy in liver affections with pain or soreness
of the left lobe of the liver and extending downwards.
Dumb ague. Soreness of external parts, as if skin
were off; debility.

Dose. — Tincture, in one to five drop doses.

CHIMAPHILA UMBELLATA
(Pipsissewa)

Acts principally on kidneys, and genito-urinary tract;
affects also lymphatic and mesenteric glands and fe-
male mammz. Plethoric -young women with dysuria.
Women with large breasts. Hepatic and renal dropsies;
chronic alcoholics. Incipient and progressive cataracts.
(B. W..James, M. D.) —~

One of the remedies whose symptoms point to its
employment in bladder affections, notably catarrh, acute
and chronic. Scanty urine, and loaded with ropy, muco-
purulent sediment. Prostatic enlargement,
224 CHIMAPHILA UMBELLATA

Head. — Pain in left frontal protuberance. Halo about
the light. Itching of eyelids, Stabbing pain in left eye
with lachrymation.

Mouth. — Toothache, worse after eating and exertion,
better cool water. Pain as if tooth was being gently
pulled.

Urinary. — Urging to urinate. Urine turbid, offensive,
containing ropy or bloody mucus, and depositing a copi-
ous sediment. Burning and scalding during micturition,
and straining afterwards. JMfust strain before flow
comes. Scanty urine. Acute prostatitis, retention, and
feeling of a ball in perineum, [Cann, ind.] Fluttering
in region of kidney. Sugar in urine. [Caps.; Grindel.]
Unable to urinate without standing with feet wide apart
and body inclined forward.

Female, — Labia inflamed, swollen. Pain in vagina.
Hot flashes. Painful tumor of mamma, not ulcerated,
with undue secretion of milk. Rapid atrophy of breasts.
Women with very large breasts and tumor in the mam-
mary gland with sharp pain through it.

Male. — Smarting in urethra from neck of bladder to
meatus. Gleet. Loss of prostatic fluid. Prostatic en-
largement and irritation.

Skin. — Scrofulous ulcers. Glandular enlargements.
Extremities. — Feeling of a band above left knee.

Modalities. — I/orse, in damp weather; from sitting
on cold stones or pavements; left side.

Relationship. — Compare: Chimaph. maculata (in-
tense gnawing hunger; burning fever; sensation of
swelling in arm pits); Uve.; Ledum; Epigaa.

Dose. — Tincture, to third attenuation.
CHININUM ARSENICOSUM 225

CHININUM ARSENICOSUM
(Arsenite of Quinine)

The symptoms of general weariness and prostration
produced by the drug have been utilized in prescribing
it homceopathically as a general tonic, often with very
marked beneficial and prompt effect. In diphtheria with
great prostration, cases that are prolonged, especially,
and in malarial affections, neuralgia, etc., it has been
found curative Asthmatic attacks which recur peri-
odically, with great prostration. Icy skin. Pressure
in the solar plexus, with tender spine back of it.

Head. — Tired feeling. Head feels too full. Throb-
bing. Greac anxiety. Great irritability. Vertigo; worse
looking up. Dull, heavy headache, frontal and occipital.
Darting pains running up into head.

Eyes. — Intense photophobia and orbicular spasm;
gushing hot tears. Flickering with pain and lachryma-
tion, |

Mouth. -—— Tongue thickly furred; yellow, slimy coat-
ing. Bitter taste. No appetite. .

Stomach, — Alternation of hyperacidity and decrease
of acid. Hyperchlorhydria. [Robinia; Arg. nit.; Or-
exine tannate.] Thirst for water, yet it disturbs. 4An-
orexia. Eggs produce diarrhea.

Heart. — Palpitation. Sensation as if heart stopped.
Suffocative attacks, occurring in periodical paroxysms.
Must have open air.

Sleep. — Sleeplessness due to nervous causes. (Single
dose of 5th or 6th potency.)

Extremities. — Weak limbs. Coldness of hands and
feet, knees and limbs, Tearing pains. ;

Fever. — Continuous, with weakness. System de-
pleted.

1S
226 CHININUM ARSENICOSUM —CHININUM SULPH.

Relationship.— Compare: Chininum; also Ferro-
Citricum (in nephritis with great anemia. Morbus
maculosus Werlhofhi); Chinin. mur. (in severe neu-
ralgic pains around eyes, with chills; exaggerated sen-
sitiveness to alcohol and tobacco; prostration and rest-
Jessness). CEnothera (effortless diarrhoea with nerv-
ous exhaustion; incipient ‘hydrocephaloid). Macro-
zamia spiralis (extreme debility after illness; collapse).

Dose, — Second and third trituration.

CHININUM SULPHURICUM
(Sulphte of Quinine)

’

A dose of Chinin. sulph. in high potency sometimes
arouses suppressed malaria, and brings back the
paroxysm. Aside from its undoubted influence over
malaria, it is indicated homceopathically whenever there
is marked periodicity and spinal sensitiveness. Acute
articular rheumatism. Polyarticular gout. Symptoms of
chronic interstitial nephritis.

Blood.— An immediate and rapid decrease in red
blood cells and reduction in hemoglobin with increase
in elimination uf chlorides. Tendency to polynucleated
leucocytosis.

Head.— Pain in forehead and temples, increasing
gradually at noon, of malarial origin, with vertigo and
pulsation. Worse left side. Falling in street. Inability
to remain standing. Amaurosis.

Ears. — Violent ringing, buzzing, and roaring im ears,
with deafness.

Face. -—— Neuralgia commiences tmder eye; extends into
and around it. Pains return with great regularity; re-
lieved by pressure.

Spine. — Great sensitivencss of the dorsal vertebra;
226 CHININUM ARSENICOSUM —CHININUM SULPH.

Relationship.— Compare: Chininum; also Ferro-
Citricum (in nephritis with great anemia. Morbus
maculosus Werlhofhi); Chinin. mur. (in severe neu-
ralgic pains around eyes, with chills; exaggerated sen-
sitiveness to alcohol and tobacco; prostration and rest-
Jessness). CEnothera (effortless diarrhoea with nerv-
ous exhaustion; incipient ‘hydrocephaloid). Macro-
zamia spiralis (extreme debility after illness; collapse).

Dose, — Second and third trituration.

CHININUM SULPHURICUM
(Sulphte of Quinine)

’

A dose of Chinin. sulph. in high potency sometimes
arouses suppressed malaria, and brings back the
paroxysm. Aside from its undoubted influence over
malaria, it is indicated homceopathically whenever there
is marked periodicity and spinal sensitiveness. Acute
articular rheumatism. Polyarticular gout. Symptoms of
chronic interstitial nephritis.

Blood.— An immediate and rapid decrease in red
blood cells and reduction in hemoglobin with increase
in elimination uf chlorides. Tendency to polynucleated
leucocytosis.

Head.— Pain in forehead and temples, increasing
gradually at noon, of malarial origin, with vertigo and
pulsation. Worse left side. Falling in street. Inability
to remain standing. Amaurosis.

Ears. — Violent ringing, buzzing, and roaring im ears,
with deafness.

Face. -—— Neuralgia commiences tmder eye; extends into
and around it. Pains return with great regularity; re-
lieved by pressure.

Spine. — Great sensitivencss of the dorsal vertebra;
CHININUM SULPHURICUM —CHIONANTHUS 227

pain on pressure. Last cervical sensitive. Pain ex-
tends to head and neck.

Urine.— Bloody. Turbid, slimy, clay-colored, greasy
sediment. Small amount of urea and phosphoric acid
with excess of uric acid and abundance of chlorides,
accompanied by subnormal temperature. Excessive
flow. Albuminuria.

Skin. — Itching; erythema, urticaria, icterus, ‘vesica-
tion, pustules, purpura. Great sensitiveness. Shriveled
skin.

Fever. — Painful swelling of various veins during a
chill. Shivering even in a warm room. Anguish.
Sweat with general shivering. Trembling in limhs, with
slow pulse. Subnormal temperature.

Relationship. -- Compare: Chin. salicyl, (Deafness,
tinnitus, and Meniere’s disease). Ars.; Eupat.;
Methyl, bluc. Camphor mono-bromide (is said to in-
tensify the action of Quinine and render it more per-
manent.) Baja, an East Indian drug, (said to be almost
infallible in intermittent fever, quartan type) ; also Pam-
botano, Mexican remedy for intermittent and tropical
fevers.

Antidotes: Parthenum; Natr. mur.; Lach.; Arn:
Puls,

Dose. — First to third triturations; also thirtieth po-
tency and higher.

CHIONANTHUS
(Fringe-tree)

This remedy is often of service in many types of
headaches, neurasthenic, periodical sick, menstrual and
bilious. Taken for several weeks, drop doses, will often
break up the sick headache habit. The pain in the
228 CHIONANTHUS — CHLORALUM

forehead, chiefly over eyes. Eyeballs very painful, with
pressure over root of nose. Jaundice. Enlarged spleen.
[Ceanoth.] Jaundice, with arrest of menses. A promi-
nent liver remedy. Gallstones. [Berberis; Cholest.;
Cale.) Diabetes mellitus. Paroxysmal, abdominal pain.

Head. — Listless, apathetic. Dull frontal headache,
over root of nose, over eyes, through temples, worse
stooping, motion, jar. Yellow conjunctiva.

Tongue. — Broad with thick yellow fur.

Mouth. — Dry sensation not relieved by water, also
profuse saliva.

Abdomen and Liver. — Aching in umbilical region,
griping. Feels as if a string were tied in a “slip-knot”
around intestines which was suddenly drawn tight and
then gradually loosened. Sore; ecnlurged, with jaun-
dice and constipation. Clay-colored stool, also soft, yel-
low and pasty. Tongue heavily coated. No appetite.
Bilious colic. Hepatic region tender.

Urine. -- Large amount of high specific gravity; fre-
quent urination; bile and sugar in urine. Urine very
dark.

Skin. —- Yellow; marked moisture of skin,

Relationship. — Compare: Cinchona; Ceanoth.; Chel-
idon.; Carduus; Podophyl.; Lept.

Dose. — Tincture and first attenuation.

CHLORALUM
(Chloral Hydrate)

This drug, used in physiolegical doses, is a powerful
hypnotic and cardiac depressant. Jt has a marked ef-
fect on the skin, producing erythema, ecchymosis, etc.,
which symptoms have been utilized homeopathically
CHLORALUM 229

with much success, especially in the treatment of hives.
Emotional excitability, hallucinations. Night terrors i
children.

Head. — Morning headache; worse in forehead, on
motion; better in ope air. Fecling as if hot band were
drawn from temple to temple.

Eyes. — Eyes bilood-shot and watery. Circles of light,
black spots. Dim vision. Conjunctivitis, burning in
eye and lids; eyeball feels too large; everything looks
white.

Skin. — Red blotches, like measles. Uriicaria, worse,
spirituous liquors, hot drinks. Erythema aygravated
by alcoholic drinks, with palpitation; causes pain in
tendons and extensors. Intense itching. Surface of
hody stone-cold. Wheals come on from a chill; better,
warmth. Purpura. [Phos.; Crotal.]

Respiratory. — Extreme dyspnoea, with sensation of
weight and constriction of chest. Asthma, with sleep-
lessness.

Sleep. — Insomnia, hallucinations, horrid dreams.

Modalities. — I orsc, after hot drinks, stimulants, eat-
ing, night.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Ammon.; Atrop.; Dig.;
Mosch.

Compare: Bell.; Opium; Apis; Veronal (confluent,
reddish spots; dermatitis, itching of glans and pre-
puce; circumscribed dermatitis patch on first metacar-
pal phalangeal joint).

Dose. — First trituration in hives, otherwise, higher
potencies. Locally, in offensive foot-sweat, bathe with
one per cent. solution. For its physiological effects, five
to twenty grains. Use cautiously,
230 CHLORUFORMU M — CHLORUM

CHLOROFORMUM
(Chloroform)

General anesthetic, antispasmodic. Complete mus-
cular relaxation. Weak and quick pulse, shallow or
stertorous breathing. Convulsions, nephritic or biliary
colic, gastralgia,

Chloroform.— Symptoms obtained by Dr. D. Mac-
farlan with the 6th, potency:

Great weakness, especially on right side. Limbs very
tired from knees-down. Much perspiration all over
face and chest; drowsy and dizzy; dry lips and throat;
dry tickling cough at night. Flatulence; food re-
gurgitates; sore and bruised feeling in stomach; catch-
ing pain around heart. Sharp pain in right chest when
he takes long breath; shortness of breath on exertion.

Head. — Delirium where excitement and violence pre-
dominate. Head drawn down upon the shoulders, eyes
opened and closed rapidly, pupils contracted; rapid con-
vulsive movements of face, of muscles, of extremities.

Dose. — Higher attenuations, or sixth, Phosphorus is
the remedy to give in narcosis of chloroform.

CHLORUM
(Chlorine Gas in Water)

The marked effect on the respiratory organs, pro-
ducing spasm of the glottis, is the chief symptom of
the drug. Asthma, to relieve the spasm of glottis. Use-
ful externally and internally in gangrene.

Mind.— Fear of becoming crazy. Marked loss of
memory, especially for names.

Respiratory. — Sooty, smoky nostrils. [Helleb.]
Coryza with sudden gushes of sharp, corroding fluid.
CHLORUM. -— CHOLESTERINUM 231

Constriction, with suffocation. Spasm of the glottis.
Irritation of epigldttis, larynx, and bronchi. Loss of
voice from damp air. Sudden dyspnaca from spasm of
the vocal cords, with staring protruding eyes, blue face,
cold sweat, pulse small. Inspiration free, with ob-
structed expiration. [Mcphit.] Livid face. Prolonged,
Joud, whistling rales. Extreme dryness of tongue.

Dose. — Chlorine water, when required of full
strength, must be freshly prepared. Fourth to sixth
potency.

CHOLESTERINUM
(Cholesterine — The proximate principle. Furnished
by the epithelium lining of gall bladder and the
larger ducts)

For cancer of the liver. Obstinate hepatic engorge-
ments. Burning pain in side: on walking holds his
hand on side, hurts him so. Opacities of the vitreous,
Jaundice; gallstones. Cholesterine is the physiological
opponent of Lecithin. Both seem to play some un-
known part in the growth of tumors,

Relationship. — Compare: Taurocholate of soda in
Homeopathy. — Dr. I. P. Tessier, in an interesting
study of the action of bile and its salts, in hepatic af-
fections, analyzes a number of experiments by leading
authorities, with the object of determining this action,
and concludes that in the Taurocholate of Soda, ho-
mceopathy has a useful remedy against certain forms of
hypoglobular anemia. The claim that its pathogenesis
and toxicology clearly indicate its value, and that it
should also serve us as a remedy in cases of hyper-
trophy of the spleen and ganglia. He calls our atten-
tion to the fact, that it produces dyspnoea, the Cheyne-
Stokes rhythm, acute pulmonary cedema, and intense
232 CHOLESTERINUM — CHROMICUM ACIDUM

exaggeration of the cardiac pulsations, offering a good
field for clinical studies and experimentation of great
interest, which may give fruitful and important re-
sults.

Dose. — Third trituration.

CHROMICUM ACIDUM
(Chromic Acid)

Diphtheria, post-nasal tumors, and epithelioma of the
tongue have been benefited by this drug. Bloody, foul-
smelling lochia. Symptoms come and go suddenly, and
return periodically.

Nose. — Ulcer and scabs in nose. Offensive smell.
Corrosive pain. Ozena. [.4ur.]

Throat. — Diphtheria; sore throat. Tough mucus,
with inclination to swallow it; worse, morning, caus-
ing hawking. Post-nasal tumors.

Extremities. — Uneasiness in limbs. Pain in shoulder-
blades and back of neck. Pain in knees and balls of
fect.

Stool. — Watery, frequent, copious, with nausea and
vertigo. Hemorrhoids, internal and bleeding. Weak-
ness in small of back.

Relationship.— Compare: Kali bich.; Rhus; Chro-
mium Sulphate (in locomotor ataxia, goitre, prostatic
hypertrophy. Herpes preputialis. Wry neck. Also ex-
ophthmalic, inhibits the vagus, relieving tachycardia.
Acts like a nerve tonic where there is lack of nervous
tone, Fibroid tumors. Infantile paralysis. Dose for
adits, 3 to 5 grains after meals and at bedtime). ,

Dose. — Third to sixth trituration.
CHRYSAROBINUM —CICUTA VIROSA 233

CHRYSAROBINUM
(Chrysophanic Acid)

Used successfully in rinyworm, sycosis, psoriasis,
herpes tonsurans, and circinatus.— Acne rosacea. Ec-
zema of lower extremities, with intense ttching,; profuse
and offensive discharge. Used externally, is a power-
ful stimulant and parasiticide in many skin affections.
Alopecia.

Eyes. — Blepharitis, conjunctivitis, keratitis. Optical
hyperasthesia.

Ears. — Fezematous, scabby condition. Whole ear
and surrounding tissue appears to be one scab,

Dose. — Locally, as a cerate, 4-8 grains to the ounce,
of vaseline. Internally, third to sixth potency.

CICUTA VIROSA
(Water Hemlock)

The action on the nervous system, producing spas-
modic affections, viz., hiccough, trismus, tetanus, and
convulsions, give the pathological picture calling es-
pecially for this remedy, whenever this is further char-
acterized, by the more individual symptoms of the drug.
Among these, are the bending of the head, neck, and
spine backwards, and the general action of the patient
is violcnt, with frightful distortions. Violent, strange
desires. Sensation of internal chill. Moaning and
howling. Does absurd things. Marked action on the
skin.

Mind. — Delirium, with singing, dancing and funny
gestures. Everything appears strange and _ terrible.
Confounds present with the past; feels like a child.
234 CICUTA VIROSA

Stupid feeling. Melancholy, with indifference. Mis-
trustful.

Head. — Head turned or twisted to one side. Cerebro-
Spinal meningitis. Cervical muscles contracted. Ver-
tigo, with gastralgia, and muscular spasms. Sudden,
violent shocks through head. Stares persistently at ob-
jects. Convulsions from concussion of brain. Thick,
yellow scabs on head. Head symptoms relieved by
emission of flatus.

Eyes.— When reading, letters disappear. Pupils
dilated, insensible strabismus. Objects recede, approach,
and seem double. Eyes stare. Pupils get behind up-
per lids as head inclines. Effects of exposure to snow.
Spasmodic affections of eyes and its appendages. Stra-
bismus; periodic, spasmodic after a fall or a blow.

Ears. — Difficult hearing. Sudden detonations espe-
cially on swallowing. Haemerrhage from ears.

Face. -—— Pustules which run together forming thick,
yellow scabs on face and head, corners of mouth and
chin, with burning pain. Ked facc. Trismus; disposi-
tion to grind teeth.

Throat.— Dry. Feels as if grown together. Spasms
of cesophagus; cannot swallow. Effects on cesophagus
from swallowing sharp piece of bone.

Stomach, — Thirst; burning pressure; jiccough.
Throbbing in pit of stomach, which has become raised
to size of fist. Desire for unnatural things, like coal.
[Alwn.; Calc.] Indigestion, with insensibility, frothing
at mouth,

Abdomen. — Distended and painful. Colic, with con-
vulsions.

Rectum. — Diarrhoea in morning, with irresistible de-
fire to urinate. Itching in rectum.
CICUTA VIROSA — CIMEX — ACANTHIA 235

Respiratory. — Chest feels tight; can hardly breathe.
Tonic spasm in pectoral muscles. Heat in chest.

Back and Extremities.— Spasms and cramps in
muscles of nape of neck, and spasmodic drawing back-
ward of head. Curved limbs cannot be straightened
nor straight ones bent. Back bent backward like an
arch. Jerking, tearing in coccyx, especially during
menses.

Skin. — Eczema; no itching; exudation forms into a
hard, lemon-colored crust. Suppressed eruption causes
brain disease. Elevated eruptions, as large as peas.
Chronic impetigo.

Modalities. — Worse, from touch, draughts, concus-
sion, tobacco smoke.

Relationship. -- Antidotes: Opiuin; Arn.

Compare: Cicuta Maculata -- Water Hemlock — (Ef-
fects very similar; the most prominent symptoms being:
Falls unconscious, tetanic or clonic convulsions, Body
covered with sweat. Consider in epilepsy and tetanus.
Tincture and lower potencies.) Hydrocy. acid; Con.;
CGnanth.; Strychnia; Bellad,

Dose. — Sixth to two hundredth attenuation.

CIMEX — ACANTHIA
(Bedbug)

Of use in intermittent fever, with weariness and in-
clination to stretch. Hamstrings feel too short. [Am-
mur.) Flexors mostly affected. Stretching.

Head. — Violent headache, caused by drinking. Great
rage; vehement at beginning of chilly stage. Would
like to tear everything to pieces. Pain under right
frontal bone.

Female. — Shooting pain from vagina up towards left
ovary. '
236 CIMEX —- CIMICIFUGA RACEMOSA

Fever. — Chilliness of whole body. Sensation as of
wind blowing on knees, Pains in all joints, as if ten-
dons were too short, especially knee-joints. Chill; worse
lying down. Thirst during apyrexia, but little during
chilly stage; still less during hot stage, and none during
sweating. Musty, offensive sweat.

Bowels. — Constipation, feeces dry and in small balls
[Op.; Plumb.; Thuj.] and hard. Ulcer of rectum.

Dose. — Sixth to two hundredth attenuation,

CIMICIFUGA RACEMOSA — (ACTAEA RACE-
MOSA)

(Black Snake-root) (Macrotys)

Has a wide action upon the cerebrospinal and mus-
cular system, as well as upon the uterus and ovaries.
Its muscular and crampy pains, primarily of neurotic
origin, occurring in ncarly every part of the body, are
characteristic. fgitation and pain indicate it. Pains
like electric shocks here and there. Migraine. Symp-
toms referable to the pelvic organs prominent.

Mental. —- Sensation of a cloud enveloping her. Great
depression, with dream of impending cvilt. Fears riding
in a closed carriage, of being obliged to jump out. In-
cessant talking. Visions of rats, mice; etc. Delirium
tremens; tries to injure himself. Mania following dis-
appearance of neuralgia.

Head. — Wild feeling in brain. Shooting and throb-
bing pains in head after mental worry, over-study, or
reflex of uterine disease. Waving sensation or open-
ing and shutting sensation in brain. Brain feels tov
large. Pressing-outward pain. Tinnitus. Ears sensi-
tive to. least noise.
igftes. — Asthenopia associated with pelvic trouble.
Deep-seated throbbing and shooting pains in eyes, with
236 CIMEX —- CIMICIFUGA RACEMOSA

Fever. — Chilliness of whole body. Sensation as of
wind blowing on knees, Pains in all joints, as if ten-
dons were too short, especially knee-joints. Chill; worse
lying down. Thirst during apyrexia, but little during
chilly stage; still less during hot stage, and none during
sweating. Musty, offensive sweat.

Bowels. — Constipation, feeces dry and in small balls
[Op.; Plumb.; Thuj.] and hard. Ulcer of rectum.

Dose. — Sixth to two hundredth attenuation,

CIMICIFUGA RACEMOSA — (ACTAEA RACE-
MOSA)

(Black Snake-root) (Macrotys)

Has a wide action upon the cerebrospinal and mus-
cular system, as well as upon the uterus and ovaries.
Its muscular and crampy pains, primarily of neurotic
origin, occurring in ncarly every part of the body, are
characteristic. fgitation and pain indicate it. Pains
like electric shocks here and there. Migraine. Symp-
toms referable to the pelvic organs prominent.

Mental. —- Sensation of a cloud enveloping her. Great
depression, with dream of impending cvilt. Fears riding
in a closed carriage, of being obliged to jump out. In-
cessant talking. Visions of rats, mice; etc. Delirium
tremens; tries to injure himself. Mania following dis-
appearance of neuralgia.

Head. — Wild feeling in brain. Shooting and throb-
bing pains in head after mental worry, over-study, or
reflex of uterine disease. Waving sensation or open-
ing and shutting sensation in brain. Brain feels tov
large. Pressing-outward pain. Tinnitus. Ears sensi-
tive to. least noise.
igftes. — Asthenopia associated with pelvic trouble.
Deep-seated throbbing and shooting pains in eyes, with
CIMICIFUGA RACEMOSA 237

photophobia from artificial light. Intense aching of
eycball. Pain from eycs to top of head.

Stomach. — Nausea and vomiting caused by pressure
on spine and cervical region. Sinking in epigastrium,
[Sep.; Sulph.] Gnawing pain,

Female. — Pain in ovarian region; shoots upward and
down anterior surface of thighs. Pain immediately be-
fore menses Menses profuse, dark, coagulated, otfen-
sive with backache, nervousness; always irregular.
Ovarian neuralgia. Pain across pelvis, from hip to hip.
After-pains, with great sensitiveness and intolerance to
pain. Infra-mammary pains worse, left side. Facial
blemishes in young women,

Respiratory. — Tickling in throat. Dry, short cough,
worse speaking and at night.

Heart. — Irregular, trembling pulse. Tremulous ac-
tion. Angina pectoris. Numbness of left arm; feels as
if bound to side. Heart’s action ceases suddenly, im-
pending suffocation. Left-sided infra-mammary pain.

Back. — Spine very sensitive, especially upper part.
stiffness and contraction in neck and back. Intercostal
rheumatism. Rheumatic pains in muscles of back and
neck. Pain in lumbar and sacral region, down thighs,
and through hips. Crick in hack.

Extremities. — Uneasy, restless feeling in limbs. Ach-
ing in limbs and muscular soreness. Rheumatism af-
fecting the belly of muscles, especially large muscles.
Choreic movements, accompanied by rheumatism. Jerk-
ing of limbs. Stiffness in tendo-Achilles. Heaviness in
lower extremities.

Sleep. — Sleeplessness. Brain irritation of children
during dentition.

Skin. — Locally and internally for ivy poisoning.
238 CIMICIFUGA RACEMOSA — CINA

Modalities. — Worse, during menses; the more pro-
fuse the flow, the greater the suffering. Better, warmth,
eating.

Relationship. — Compare: Rhamnus  Californica
(muscular pains, l\umbago, pleurodynia, acute rheuma-
tism). Derris pinnata (Neuralgic headaches of rheuma-
tic origin). Aristolochia milhomens (pain in tendo-
Achilles; diabetes). Caulophyl.; Pulsat.; Lilium; Agar.;
Macrotin (especially for lumbago).

Dose. — Tincture, to thirtieth attenuation; third most
frequently used.

CINA
(Worm-seed)

This is a children’s remedy, corresponding to many
conditions that may be referred to intestinal irritation,
such as worms and accompanying complaints. An irrita
bility of temper, variable appetite, grinding of teeth, and
even convulsions, with screams and violent jerkings of
the hands and feet, are all within its range of action.
The Cina patient is hungry, cross, ugly, and wants to be
rocked. Pain in shocks. Skin sensitive to touch.

Mind. — Ill-humor. Child very cross; does not want
to be touched, or crossed, or carried. Desires many
things, but rejects everything offered. Abnormal con-
sciousness, as if having committed some evil deed.

Head. — Headache, alternating with pain in abdomen.
Relieved by stooping. [Mezer.] Pain in head when
using eyes.

Eyes. — Dilated pupils; yellow vision. Weak sight
from masturbation. Strabismus from abdominal irri-
tation. Eyestrain, especially when presbyopia sets in.
Pulsation of superciliary muscle.

. Sars. — Digging and scratching in ears,
CINA 239

Nose. — Itching of nose all the time. Wants to rub tt
and pick at it. Bores at nose till it bleeds.

Face. — Intense, circumscribed redness of cheeks.
Pale, hot, with dark rings around eyes. Cold perspira-
tion. White and bluish about the mouth. Grits teeth
during sleep. Choreic movements of face and hands.

Stomach. — Gets hungry soon after a meal. Hungry,
digging, gnawing sensation. Epigastric pain; worse,
first waking in morning and before meals. Vomiting
and diarrhoea immediately after eating or drinking.
Vomiting with a clean tongue. Desires many and dif-
ferent things. Craving for sweets.

Abdomen. — Twisting pain about navel. [Spig.]
‘Bloated and hard abdomen.

Stool. — White mucus, like smal! pieces of popped
corn, preceded by pinching colic. Jtching of anus.
[Teuc.] Worms. [Sabad.; Naphth.; Nat. phos.]

Urine. — Turbid, white; turns milky on standing. In-
voluntary at night.

Female. — Uterine hemorrhage before puberty.

Respiratory.— Gagging cough in the morning.
Whooping-cough. Violent recurring paroxysms, as of
down in throat. Cough ends in a spasm. Cough so
violent as to bring tears and sternal pains; feels as if
something had been torn off. Periodic; returning spring
and fall. Swallows after coughing. Gurgling from
throat to stomach aftcr coughing. Child is afraid to
speak or move for fear of bringing on paroxysm of
coughing. After coughing, moaning, anxious, gasps for
air and turns pale.

Extremities. — Twitching and jerking distortion of
limbs, trembling. Paralyzed shocks; patient will jump
suddenly, as though in pain. Child throws arms from
side to side. Norturnal convulsions. Sudden inward
240 CINA —CINCHONA OFFICINALIS

jerking of fingers of right hand. Child stretches out
fect spasmodically. Left foot in constant spasmodic
motion.

Sleep. — Child gets on hands and knees in sleep; on
abdomen. Night terrors of children; cries out, screams,
wakes frightened. Troubles while yawning. Screams
and talks in sleep. Grits teeth.

Fever. — Light chill. Much fever, associated with
clean tongue. Much hunger; colicky pains; chilliness,
with thirst. Cold sweat on forehead, nose, and hands.
In Cina fever, face is cold and hands warm.

Modalities. — If’orse, looking fixedly at an object,
from worms, at night, in sun, in summer,

Relationship. — Compare: Helmintochorios — Worm-
moss (acts very powerfully on intestinal worms, es-
pecially the lumbricoid.) Teucrium; Ignat.; Cham.;
Spig. Santonin (often preferable in worm affections;
same symptoms as Cina. Lightning pains of locomotor
ataxia (1 gr. doses, also in laryngeal crises of tabes).

Antidote: Camph.; Caps.

Dose. — First to third attenuation. For nervous irri-
table children, thirticth and two-hundredth preferable.
Santonin in first (with care) and third trituration.

CINCHONA OFFICINALIS
(Peruvian Bark — China)

Debility from exhausting discharges, from loss of
vital fluids, together with a nervous erethism, calls for
this remedy. Periodicity is most marked. Sensitive to
draughts Seldom indicated in the earlier stages of
acute disease, Chronic gout. Chronic suppurative pye-

spatteet ie indifferent, disobedient, taciturn,
desp t. Ideas crowd in mind; prevent sleep. Dis-
CINCHONA OFFICINALIS 241

position to hurt other people’s feelings. Sudden cry-
ing and tossing about.

Head. — As if skull would burst. Sensation as if brain
were balancing to and fro, and striking against skull,
receiving great pain. [Sulph.; Sulph. ac.] Intense
throbbing of head and carotids. Spasmodic headache in
vertex, with subsequent pain, as if bruised in sides of
head. Face flushed after hemorrhages, or sexual ex-
cesses, or loss of vital fluids. Relieved from pressure
and warm room. Scalp sensitive; worse combing hair.
Aches worse in open air, from temple to temple. Worse
by contact. current of air, stepping. Dizzy when walk-
ing,

Eyes. —- Blue color around eyes. Hollow eyes, Yel-
lowish sclerotica. Black specks, bright dazzling illu-
sions; night blindness in anemic retina. Spots before
eyes. Photophobia. Distortion of eyeballs. Intermit-
tent ciliary neuralgia. Pressure in eyes. Amaurosis;
scalding lachrymation.

Ears. — Ringing in ears. External ear sensitive to
touch. Hearing sensitive to noise. Lobules red and
swollen.

Nose. — Checked catarrh. Easily bleeding from nose,
especially on rising. Coryza, sneezing, watery dis-
charge. Violent dry sneezing. Cold sweat about nose.

Face. — Sallow complexion. Face bloated; red.

Mouth. — Toothache;. better pressing teeth firmly to-
gether, and by warmth. Tongue coated thick, dirty;
tip burns, succeeded by ptyalism. Bitter taste. Food
tastes too salty.

Stomach. — Tender, cold. Vomiting of undigested
food. Slow digestion. Weight after eating. Ill ef-
fects of tea. Hungry without appetite. Flat taste.
Darting pain crosswise in hypogastric region. Milk dis-
242 CINCHONA OFFICINALIS

agrees. Hungry longing for food, which lies undi-
gested. Flatulence; belching gives no relief ; worse eat-
ing fruit.

Abdomen. — Much flatulent colic; better bending
double, Z'ympanitic abdomen. Pain in right hypochon-
drium. Gallstone colic. [Triumfetta semitriloba.]
Liver and spleen swollen and enlarged. Jaundice. In-
ternal coldness of stomach and abdomen. Gastro-duo-
denal catarrh.

Stool. — Undigested, frothy, yellow; painless; worse
at night, after meals, during hot weather, from fruit,
milk, beer. Very weakening, with much flatulence. Dif-

ficult even when soft. [Alum.; Plat.]

Male. — Excited lascivious fancy. Frequent emis-
sions, followed by great weakness. Orchitis.

Female. — Menses tuo early. Dark clots and abdomi-
nal distention. Profuse menses with pain. Desire too
strong. Bloody leucorrheea. Painful heaviness in pelvis.

Respiratory. —-Influenza, with debility. Cannot
breathe with head low. Labored, slow respiration; con-
stant checking. Suffocative catarrh; rattling in chest; vio-
lent, hacking cough after evtry meal. Hemorrhage
from lungs. Dyspncea, sharp pain in left lung. [Muille-
fol.; Ferr. phos.]

Back. — Sharp pains across kidneys, worse movement
and at night. Knife-like pains around back. (D. Mac-
Farlan.)

Extremities. — Pains in limbs and joints, as if
sprained; worse, slight touch; hard pressure relieves.
Joints swollen; very sensitive, with dread of open air.
Great debility, trembling, with numb sensation. Averse
to exercse; sensitive to touch. Weariness of joints;
worse, mornings and when sitting.
CINCHONA OFFICINALIS—CINERARIA 243

Skin. — xtreme sensitiveness to touch, but hard
pressure relicves. Coldness; much sweat. One hand
icy cold, the other warm. Anasarca. [Ars.; Apis.]
Dermatitis; erysipelas. Indurated glands; scrofulous
ulcers and caries.

Sleep. — Drowsiness, Unrefreshing or constant stupor.
Wakens early. Protracted sleeplessness, Anxious,
frightful dreams with confused consciousness on waking,
so that the dream cannot be rid of and fear of dream
remains. Snoring, especially with children.

Fever. — Intermittent, paroxysms anticipate; return
every week. All stages well marked. Every little ex-
ertion causes free perspiration. Chili generally in fore-
noon, commencing in breast; thirst before chill, and
little and often. Debilitating night-sweats.

Modalities. — Worse, slightest touch. [Plumb ;
Caps.]. Draught of air; every other day; loss of vital
fluids; at night; after eating; bending over. Better,
bending double; hard pressure; open air; better warmth,

Relationship. —- Antidotes: Arn.; Ars.; Nux; Ipec.

Compare: Cephalanthus— Button Bush — Intermit-
tent fever, sore throat, rheumatic symptoms, vivid
dreams). <Ars.; Cedron; Nat. sulph. Cydonia vulgaris
— Quince (supposed to be of use to strengthen the sex-
ual organs and stomach).

Complementary: Ferrum; Calc. phos.

Dose. — Tincture, to thirtieth potency.

CINERARIA
(Dusty Miller)

Has some reputation in the cure of cataract and cor-
neal opacities. Is used externally, by instilling into the
eye one drop four or five times a day. This must be
kept up for several months. Most effective in trau-
244 ~ CINERARIA—CINNABARIS—MERC. SULPH, RUB.

matic cases. Compare in cataract Phosph.; Platanus;
Cannabis; Causticum; Naphthalin; Ledum; Nat. mur.;
Silica,

CINNABARIS—MERCURIUS SULPHURATUS
RUBER

(Mercuric Sulphide)

For certain forms of ciliary neuralgia and ulceration
upon a syphilitic base, this remedy is most effective.

Head. — Congestion to head; face purple red.

Eyes. — Pains from lachrymal duct around cye to
temple, from inner canthus across brows to ear. Se-
vere shooting pain in bones of orbit, especially running
from inner to outer canthus in the bone, Redness of
whole eye. Lids granulated; canthi and lids red.

Nose. — Pressive sensation, as from heavy spectacles.
Pain about root, extending into bones on each side.
[Aur.; Kal. hyd.]

Throat. — Stringy mucus passed through posterior
nares into throat. Dryness of mouth and throat; must
rinse the mouth. Fiery-looking ulcers in mouth and
throat,

Male. — Prepuce swollen; warts on it which bleed
easily; testicles enlarged; buboes; angry-looking
chancres. Syphilides, squamous and vesicular.

Female. -— Leucorrheea. Feeling of pressure in
vagina,

Extremities. — Pain in forearm from elbow down, in-
cluding hands. Pain in long bones when harometer
lowers; coldness of joints.

Skin. — Very fiery-red looking ulcers. Nodes on shin-
bones, Buboes. Condyloma, easily bleeding.
CINNABARIS — MERC. SULPH. RUB. —CINNAM. 245

Modalities. — IVorse, lying on right side (feels as if
contents of body were being dragged over to that side).

Relationship. — Compare: Hepar; Nitr, ac.; Thuja;
Sep.

Antidotes: Hepar; Sulph,
Dose. — First to third trituration.

CINNAMONUM
(Cinnamon)

Cancer where pain and fetor are present, Best when
skin is intact. Its use in hemorrhages has abundant
clinical verification. Nosebleed. Hzmorrhages from
bowels, hemoptysis, etc. A strain in loins or false
step brings on a profuse flow of bright blood. Post-
partum hemorrhage. Flatulencs and diarrhoea. Feeble
patients with languid circulation,

Female. —- Bearing-down sensation. Menses early,
profuse, prolonged, bright red. Sleepy. No desire for
anything. Fingers seem swollen. Uterine haemorrhages
caused by overlifting, during puerperal state; menor-
rhagia.

Relationship. — Compare: Jpec.; Sil.; Trill.
Antidote: Acon. :

Dose. — Tincture to third potency. For cancer, strong
decoction, one-half pint in a day, Oil of cinnamon in
aqueous solution best local disinfectant. 3-4 drops in
two quarts of water as a douche, wherever a germicide
and disinfectant is needcd. Three drops on sugar for
hiccough.
246 CISTUS CANADENSIS

CISTUS CANADENSIS
(Rock Rose)

A deep-acting anti-psoric remedy, with marked action
in glandular affections, herpetic eruptions, chronic
swellings, when patient is extremely sensitive to cold.
Sensation of coldness in various parts, Scrofulous oph-
thalmia. Poisoned wounds, bites, phagedenic ulcers.
Malignant disease of the glands of the neck. Cistus has
affinity for naso-pharynx; aborts colds that center in
posterior nose. Sniffling.

Face. — Itching, burning, and crusts on right zygoma.
Lupus, caries; open, bleeding cancer. Tip of nose
painful.

Mouth. — Scorbutic swollen gums. Mouth fecls cold;
putrid, impure breath, Pyorrhaa. [Merc. cor.; Cuust.;
Staph.; Kreos.] Hurts io protrude the tongue.

Ears. — Watery discharge; also fetid pus. Tetter on
and around ears, extending to external meatus.

Throat, — Spongy feeling; very dry and cold air pass-
ing over paris causes pain. Breath, tongue, and throat
fel cold. Uvula and tonsils swollen. A small, dry spot
in throat; must sip water frequently. Hawking of
mucus. Swelling and suppuration of glands of throat.
Head drawn to one side by swellings in neck. Sore
throat from inhaling the least cold air. Heat and itch-
ing in throat.

tomach. — Cool feeling in stomach before and after
eating. Cool feeling in whole abdomen. Desire for
cheese.

Stool. — Diarrhoea from coffee and fruit, thin, yellow,
urgent; worse in inorning.

Chest.—-Coldness in chest. The neck is studded
with tumors. Induration of mammz. Hemorrhage
from lungs.
246 CISTUS CANADENSIS

CISTUS CANADENSIS
(Rock Rose)

A deep-acting anti-psoric remedy, with marked action
in glandular affections, herpetic eruptions, chronic
swellings, when patient is extremely sensitive to cold.
Sensation of coldness in various parts, Scrofulous oph-
thalmia. Poisoned wounds, bites, phagedenic ulcers.
Malignant disease of the glands of the neck. Cistus has
affinity for naso-pharynx; aborts colds that center in
posterior nose. Sniffling.

Face. — Itching, burning, and crusts on right zygoma.
Lupus, caries; open, bleeding cancer. Tip of nose
painful.

Mouth. — Scorbutic swollen gums. Mouth fecls cold;
putrid, impure breath, Pyorrhaa. [Merc. cor.; Cuust.;
Staph.; Kreos.] Hurts io protrude the tongue.

Ears. — Watery discharge; also fetid pus. Tetter on
and around ears, extending to external meatus.

Throat, — Spongy feeling; very dry and cold air pass-
ing over paris causes pain. Breath, tongue, and throat
fel cold. Uvula and tonsils swollen. A small, dry spot
in throat; must sip water frequently. Hawking of
mucus. Swelling and suppuration of glands of throat.
Head drawn to one side by swellings in neck. Sore
throat from inhaling the least cold air. Heat and itch-
ing in throat.

tomach. — Cool feeling in stomach before and after
eating. Cool feeling in whole abdomen. Desire for
cheese.

Stool. — Diarrhoea from coffee and fruit, thin, yellow,
urgent; worse in inorning.

Chest.—-Coldness in chest. The neck is studded
with tumors. Induration of mammz. Hemorrhage
from lungs.
CISTUS CANADENSIS — CITRUS VULGARIS 247

Extremities. — Sprained pain in wrist. Tips of
fingers sensitive to cold. Tetter on hands. Cold feet.
Syphilitic ulcers on lower limbs, with hard swelling
around. White swelling.

Sleep. — Cannot sleep from coldness in throat.

Female. — Induration and inflammation of mamme.
Sensitive to cold air. Bad smelling leucorrhea. .

Respiratory. — Asthmatic after lying down (trachea
feels narrow), preceded by formication.

Skin. — Itching all over. Small, painful pimples;
lupus, Glands inflamed and indurated. Mercurio-syph-
ilitic ulcers. Skin of hands hard, thick, dry, fissured;
deep cracks. Itching of swollen hands and arins; gen-
eral itching which prevents sleep. Hemicrania,.

Modalities. — Worse, slightest exposure to cold air.
Better after eating.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Rhus; Sepia,

Compare: Conium,; Carbo; Calc; Arg. n.

Dose. — First to thirtieth attenuation. Locally as a
wash to arrest fetid discharges.

CITRUS VULGARIS
(Bitter Orange)

Headache with nausea, vomiting and vertigo. Facial
neuralgias mostly right-sided. Thoracic oppression.
Frequent and irresistible yawnings. Disturbed sleep.

Relationship. — Citrus decumana — Grape-fruit. (Tin-
nitus, head noises and ringing in ears. Sensation of
pressure in the temporal region.) Aurantium-Orange
(neuralgic and skin symptoms Itching, redness and
swelling of hands. Diseases of the aged with coldness
and chilliness). Compare: Citrus Limonum (scorbutus,
sore throat and cancer pains; checks excessive menstru-
ation).
248 CLEMATIS ERECTA

CLEMATIS ERECTA
(Virgin’s Bower)

Scrofulous, rheumatic, gonorrhaeal, and syphilite pa-
tients. Acts especially on skin, glands and genito-
urinary organs, especially testicles. A remedy of much
importance in disturbances of sleep, and neuralgic pains
in various parts. Muscles relaxed or twitching. Great
emaciation. Acts promptly on urethra and genitals.
Great sleepiness. Distant pulsation in whole body.

Head. — Boring pain in temples. Confused feeling.
Eruption on occiput at base of hair, moist, pustular,
sensitive, itching.

Eyes. — Heat in eyes and sensitive to air. Flickering
before eyes. Pustular conjunctivitis, with tinea capitis ;
eyes inflamed and protruding.

Face. — White blisters on face and nose, as if burned
by sun. Swelling of submaxillary glands, with hard
tubercles; throbbing, aggravated on being touched.
Pain in right side of face to eye, ear and temple;
better, holding cold water in mouth.

Teeth. — Ache; worse, at night and from tobacco.
Teeth feel too long. ‘

Stomach. — After eating, weakness in all limbs and
pulsation in arteries.

Male. — Ilio-scrotal neuralgia. Testicles indurated
{Kali c.; Spongia; Copaiva; Plumb.], with bruised
feeling. Swelling of scrotum. [Ars.; Puls.; Canth.;
Iga.; Brom.; Rhus.] Right half only. Troubles from
suppressed gonorrhea. Violent erections with stitches
in urethra. Testicles hang heavy or retracted, with
pain along spermatic cord; worse, right side. [Aurum;~
Arg. n.; Nitr. ac.J

Urinary. — Tingling in urethra lasting some time after
CLEMATIS ERECTA — COBALTUM 249

urinating. Frequent, scanty urination; burning at ori-
fice. Interrupted flow. Urethra feels constricted.
Urine emitted drop by drop. Inability to pass all the
urine; dribbling after urinating.

Skin. — Red, burning, vesicular, scaly, scabby. Itches
terribly; worse, washing in cold water; worse face and
hands and scalp around occiput. Glands hot, painful,
swollen.

Modalities. — Betier, in open air. Worse, at night,
and warmth of bed (washing in cold water; new moon
— (monthly aggravation).

Relationship. — Compare: Clematis vitalba (varicose
and other ulcers); Sil.; Staph.; Petrol.; Oleand.; Sar-
sap.; Cantn.; Phos. ac.

Antidotes: Bryon.; Camph.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

COBALTUM
(The Metal Cobalt)

Adapted to neurasthenic spinal states. Sexual dis-
turbances. Fatigue, agitation, and bone pains, worse in
morning.

Mind. — All mental excitement increases suffering.
Constant interchange of mental moods.

Head. -- Aches; worse, bending head forward. Itch-
ing of hairy scalp and beard.

Teeth. — Feel too long. Pain in teeth. Cracks across
tongue. Coated white. [Ant cr.]

Abdomen. — Shooting in liver. Pain in spleen.

Rectum. — Constant dropping of blood from the anus,
no blood from the stools.
250 COBALTUM — COCA —- ERYTHROXYLON COCA

Male. — Pain in right testicle; better, urinating. Emis-
sions without erection. Impotence. Backache in lum-
bar region and weak legs. Lewd dreams. Pain in end
of urethra; greenish discharge; brown spots on genitals
and abdomen.

Back. — Pain in back and sacrum; worse while sitting;
better, walking or lying. Weakness in legs and back-
ache after emissions,

Extremities. — Aching in wrist-joints. Shooting into
thighs from liver. Weak knees: Trembling in limbs.
Tingling in feet. Foot-sweat, mostly between toes.

Sleep. — Unrefreshing; disturbed by lewd dreams.

Skin. — Dry and pimply. Pimples about nates, chin,
hairy scalp.

Relationship. — Compare: Cannab. Ind., Sepia;
Zine.; Agnus; Selen,

Dose. — Sixth to thinheil putea y.

COCA — ERYTHROXYLON COCA
(The Divine Plant of the Incas)

The mountaineer’s remedy. Useful in a variety of
complaints incidental to mountain climbing, such as
palpitation, dyspnoea, anxiety and insomnia. Exhausted
nervous system from physical and mental strain. Caries
oi teeth. Loss of voice. — Give 5-0 drops, every half
hour, two hours before expected demand on voice.
Nocturnal enuresis,

Mind. — Melancholy; bashful, ill at ease in society,
irritable, delights in solitude and obscurity. Sense of
right and wrong abolished.

Head.— Fainting fit from climbing mountains.
‘Shocks coming from occiput with vertigo. Noises in
COCA — ERYTHROXYLON COCA — COCAINA 251

ear. Headache with vertigo, preceded by flashes of
light. Like a band across forehead. Diplopia, Tongue
furred. Headaches of high aititudcs. Tinnitus,

Stomach.— Peppery sensation in mouth. Longing
for alcoholic liquors and tobacco. Great satiety for a
long time. Incarcerated flatus; rises with noise and
violence, as if it would split the esophagus. Tympanitic
distention of abdomen. No appetite but for sweets.

Heart. —- Palpitation, with weak heart and dyspneea.

Male. — Diabetes, with impotency. [Phos. ac.]

Respiratory. — Hawking of small, transparent pieces
of mucus. Weak vocal cords. Hoarseness; worse after
talking. Want of breath, short breath, especially in
aged athletes, and alcoholic users. Hamoptysis. Asthma,
spasmodic variety.

Sleep.— Can find no rest anywhere, but sleepy.
Nervousness and nightly restlessness during teething.

Modalities. — Better, from wine; riding, quick motion
in open air. Worse, ascending, high altitudes.

Relationship. — Compare: <Ars.;  Paulin.; Cyp.;
Chamom.

Antidote: Gels.

Dose. — Tincture to third attenuation.

COCAINA
(An Alkaloid from Erythroxylon Coca)

Besides the great usefulness of Cocaine as a local
anesthetic, it has specific homceopathic uses, though
the symptoms are mainly clinical only.

Sensation as if small foreign bodies or worms were
under the skin.

Mind. — Talkative. Constant desire to do something
252 COCAINA — COCCINELLA SEPTEMPUNCTATA

great, to undcriake vast feats of strength. Cerebral
activity. Frightful persecutory hallucinations; sees and
feels bugs and worms. Moral sense blunted. Personal
appearance neglected. Thinks he hears unpleasant re-
marks about himself. Hallucinations of hearing.

Head. — Throbbing and bursting sensation. Pupils
dilated, Hearing greatly increased. Roaring and noises
in head,

Eyes. — Glaucoma, increased tension, decreased cor-
neal sensibility. Eyes staring, expressionless.

Throat. — Dry, burning, tickling, constricted, paraly-
sis of muscles of deglutition. Speech difficult.

Stomach, — Loss of appetite for solid food. Likes
swects. Haemorrhages from bowels, stomach,

Nervous System. — Chorea; paralysis agitans; alco-
holic tremors and senile trembling. Local sensory pa-
ralysis, Formication and numbness in hands and fore-
arms.

Sleep. —- Restless, cannot sleep for hours after retir-
ing.

Fever. — Coldness with intense pallor.

Relationship. — Compare: Stovain (an analgesic, a
vaso-motor dilator).

Dose. — Lower potencies. As a local application to
mucous membranes, 2-4%.

COCCINELLA SEPTEMPUNCTATA
(Lady Bug)

_ This remedy ought to be remembered in neuralgias,
teeth, gums. mouth, etc. Is awakened by profuse ac-
cumulation of saliva. Uvula feels too long [Nuz].
Symptoms of hydrophobia; worse, by any bright ob-

ies. [Canth.]
COCCINELLA SEPTEMPUNCTATA — COCCULUS 253

Head. — Pain in forehead over right eye, sensitive to
touch; from superior molars to forehead. Aching in
temples and occiput. Rush of blood to face. Throb-
bing toothache. Cold sensation in teeth and mouth.
[Cistus.] Periodical attacks of frontal neuralgia. Can-
not open eyes during paroxysm. Pain worse from any
bright object; better, sleep.

Stomach. — Hiccough and burning in stomach.

Back. — Pain in region of kidneys and loins. Icy cold
extremities.

Relationship. — Compare: Canth.; Magn. c.

Dose. — Third potency.

COCCULUS
(Indian Cockle)

Within the sphere of action of Cocculus are many
spasmodic and paretic affections, notably those affecting
one-half of the body. Affects the cerebrum, will not
cure convulsive seizures proceeding from the spinal
cord. (A. E. Hinsdale.) Painful contracture of limbs
and trunk; tetanus. Many of the evil effects of night-
watching are rélieved by it. It shows a special attrac-
tion for light-haired females, especially during preg-
nancy, causing much nausea and backache. Unmar-
ried and childless women, sensitive and romantic girls,
etc, All its symptoms are worse riding in a carriage or
on shipboard; hence its use in seasickness. Sensation
of hollowness, or emptiness, as if parts had gone to
sleep. Feels too weak to talk loudly.

Mind. — Capricious. Heavy and stupid. Time passes
too quickly; absorbed in reveries. Inclination to sing
irresistible. Slow of comprehension. Mind benumbed.
Profound sadness. Catinot bear contradiction. Speaks
hastily. Very anxious about the health of others.
254 COCCULUS

Head. — Vertigo, nausea, especially when riding or
sitting up. Sense of emptiness in head. Headache in
occiput and nape; worse, lying on back of head. Sick
headache from carriage-riding, cannot lie on back part
of head. Pupils contracted. Opening and shutting sen-
sation, especially in occiput. Trembling of head. Pain
in eyes as if torn out of head.

Face. — Paralysis of facial nerve. Cramp-like pain in
masseter muscle; worse, opening mouth. Prosopalgia
in afternoon, with wide radiations of pain.

Stomach. — Nausea from riding in cars, boat, etc., or
looking at boat in motion; worse on becoming cold or
taking cold. Nausea, with faintness and vomiting.
Aversion to food, drink, tobacco. Metallic tasie. Pa-
ralysis of muscles preventing deglutition. Dryness of
cesophagus. Seasickness. Cramp, in stomach during
and after meal. Hliituugh and spasmodic yawning.
Loss of appetite. Desire for cold drinks, especially
beer. Sensation in stomach as if one had been a long
time without food until hunger was gone. Smell of
food disgusts. [Colch.] .

Abdomen, — Distended, with wind, and feeling as tf
fuli of sharp stones when moving; better, lying on one
side or the other. Pain in abdominal ring, as if some-
thing were forced through. Abdominal muscles weak ;
it seems as if a hernia would take place.

Female. — Dysmenorrheea, with profuse dark menses
Too carly menses, clotted, with spasmodic colic. Pain-
ful pressing in uterine rcgion, followed by hamorrhoids.
Purulent, gushing leucorrheea between menses; very -
weakening, can scarcely speak. So weak during men-
‘gtriition, scarcely able to stand,
COCCULUS 255

Respiratory. — Sensation of emptiness and cramp in
chest. Dyspnoea as from constriction of trachea, as if
irritated by smoke. Choking constriction in upper part
of csophagus, oppressing breathing and inducing cough.

Back. — Cracking of cervical vertebra when moving
head. Paralytic pain in small of the back, Pain tn
shoulder and arms as if bruised. Pressure in scapula
and nape. Stiffness on moving shoulders.

Extremities. —- Lameness; worse by bending. Trem-
bling and pain in limbs. Arms go to sleep. One-sided
paralysis; worse after sleep. Hands are alternately hot
and cold; numbness and cold sweat now of one, now of
the other hand. Numb and unsteady. Kuees crack on
motion. Lower limbs very weak. Inflammatory swell-y
ing of knee. Intensely painful, paralytic drawing.;
Limbs straightened out, painful when flexed. ‘

Sleep. — Spasmodic yawning. Coma vigil. Constant
drowsiness. After loss of sleep, night-watching, nurs-
ing.

Fever. — Chill, with flatulent colic, nausea, vertigo,
coldness of lower extremities, and heat of head. Sweat
general. Nervous form of low fever. Chilliness, with
perspiration, and heat of skin.

Modalities. — Worse, eating, after loss of sleep, open
air, smoking, riding, swimming, touch, noise, jar; after-
noon. Menstrual period. After emotional disturbance.

Relationship, — Antidotes: Coffee; Nux.

Compare: Picrotoxin —alkalvid of Cocculus — (epi-
lepsy, attacks in the morning on leaving horizontal posi-
tion, hernia, locomotor ataxia, night-sweats); Sym-
phoricarpus (morning sickness); Petrol.; Puls.; Ignat.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.
256 COCCUS CACTI

COCCUS CACTI
(Cochineal)

The clinical application of the symptoms of this
remedy, place it among the medicines for spasmodic
and whooping coughs, and catarrhal conditions of the
bladder ; spasmodic pains in kidneys, with visceral tenes-
mus.

Mind. — Early morning or afternoon sadness.

Head. — Suboccipital soreness: worse after sleep and
exertion. Headache, worse from lying on back, better
with the head high. Dull pain over right eye in morn-
ing.

Respiratory.— Constant hawking from enlarged
uvula; coryza, with inflamed fauces; accumulation of
thick viscid mucus, which is expectorated with great
difficulty. Tickling in larynx. Sensation of a crumb
behind larynx, must swallow continually; brushing
teeth causes cough. Fauces very sensitive. Suffocative
cough; worse, first waking, with tough, white mucus,
which strangles. Spasmodic morning cough. Whoop-
ing cough attacks end with vomiting of this tough
mucus. Chronic bronchitis complicated with gravel;
large quantities of albuminous, tenacious mucus, are ex-
pectorated. Walking against wind takes breath away.
[Nux. mosch.]

Heart. — Sensation as if everything were pressed to-
ward the heart.

Urinary.— Urging to urinate; brick-red sediment.
Urinary calculi hematuria, urates, and uric acid; lan-
cinating pains frum kidney to bladder. Deep-colored, |
thick urine. Dysuria.

Female. — Menses too early, profuse, black and thick;
@erk clots, with dysuria. Intermittent menstruation ;
256 COCCUS CACTI

COCCUS CACTI
(Cochineal)

The clinical application of the symptoms of this
remedy, place it among the medicines for spasmodic
and whooping coughs, and catarrhal conditions of the
bladder ; spasmodic pains in kidneys, with visceral tenes-
mus.

Mind. — Early morning or afternoon sadness.

Head. — Suboccipital soreness: worse after sleep and
exertion. Headache, worse from lying on back, better
with the head high. Dull pain over right eye in morn-
ing.

Respiratory.— Constant hawking from enlarged
uvula; coryza, with inflamed fauces; accumulation of
thick viscid mucus, which is expectorated with great
difficulty. Tickling in larynx. Sensation of a crumb
behind larynx, must swallow continually; brushing
teeth causes cough. Fauces very sensitive. Suffocative
cough; worse, first waking, with tough, white mucus,
which strangles. Spasmodic morning cough. Whoop-
ing cough attacks end with vomiting of this tough
mucus. Chronic bronchitis complicated with gravel;
large quantities of albuminous, tenacious mucus, are ex-
pectorated. Walking against wind takes breath away.
[Nux. mosch.]

Heart. — Sensation as if everything were pressed to-
ward the heart.

Urinary.— Urging to urinate; brick-red sediment.
Urinary calculi hematuria, urates, and uric acid; lan-
cinating pains frum kidney to bladder. Deep-colored, |
thick urine. Dysuria.

Female. — Menses too early, profuse, black and thick;
@erk clots, with dysuria. Intermittent menstruation ;
COCCUS CACTI — COCHLEARIA 257

flow only in evening and at night. Large clots escape
when passing water. Labia inflamed.
Modalities. — Worse, left side, after sleep, touch,
pressure of clothing, brushing teeth, slightest exertion.
Better, walking.
Relationship. — Compare: Canth.; Cact.; Sars.

Dose. — Lower triturations.

COCHLEARIA ARMORACEA
(Horse-radish)

Used as a gargle in scorbutic gums and sore throat.
Hoarseness and in relaxed conditions of the fauces. In-
ternally in gonorrhoea. Useful as a condiment in en-
feebled states of the stomach An infusion of the root
in cider, for dropsy, causes copious diuresis. Locally
cures dandruff.

Eyes. -— Sore und scrofulous; traumatic inflammation
of eyes, blearedness and cataract.

Stomach. — Pain towards back; worse, pressure on
dorsal vertebe. Belching and cramps. Colic with
backache.

Respiratory. -- Dry, hacking, laryngeal cough, also
post-influenzal cough, dry or loose, worse lying down.
Chest painful to touch. Coryza, with hoarseness. Mu-
cous asthma. C£dema of lungs.

Urinary. — Burning and cutting at glans penis before,
during, and after urination. Frequent urination.

Relationship. — Compare: Cannab.; Sinapis; Caps.
Dose. — First to third attenuation.
258 CODEINUM — COFFEA CRUDA

CODEINUM
(An Alkaloid from Opium)

Trembling of whole body. Involuntary twitching of
muscles of arms and lower limbs. Jtching, with feel-
ing of warmth, numbness and prickling. Diabetes.

Head. — Pain from occiput to back of neck. Skin of
face and scalp sore after neuralgia.

Eyes. — Involuntary twitching of lids. [Agar.]

Stomach. — Spasmodic pain at pit cf stomach. Eruc-
tations. Great thirst, with desire for bitter substances.

Respiratory. — Short and irritating cough; worse, at
night. Copious, purulent expectoration. Night cough
of phthisis.

Relationship. — Compare: Opium; Agaricus;
Hyoscy.; Ammon, brom.

Dose. — One-quarter of a grain doses to third tritu-
ration.

COFFEA CRUDA
(Unioasted Coffec)

Great nervous agitation and restlessness. Extreme
sensitiveness characterizes this remedy. Neuralgia in
various parts; always .with great nervous excitability
and intolerance of pain, driving to despair, Unusual
activity of mind and -body. Bad effects of sudden emo-
tions, surprises, joy, etc. Nervous palpitation. Coffea
is specially suited to tall, lean, stooping persons with
dark complexions, temperament choleric and sanguine.

Mind. — Gayety, easy comprehension, irritability, ex-
cited; senses acute. Impressionable, especially to pleas-
urable impressions. Full of ideas, quick to act. Toss
ing about in anguish. [Acon.]

Head. — Tight pain, worse from noise, smell, nar
cotics. Seems as if brain were torn to pieces, as if nail
were driven in head. Worse in open air. Sensitive
hearing.
COFFEA CRUDA 259

Face.— Dry heat, with red cheeks. Prosopalgia ex-
tending to molar teeth, cars, forehead, and scalp.

Mouth, — Toothache; temporarily relieved by holding
ice-water in the mouth. [J/fangan. opposite.] Hasty
eating and drinking. Delicate taste.

Stomach. — Excessive hunger. Intolerance of tight
clothing. After wine and liquor.

Female. — Menses too carly and Jong lasting. Dys-~
menorrheea, large clots of black blood. Hypersensiive
vulva and vagina, Voluptuous itching.

Sleep. — Wakeful; on a constant move. Sleeps till 3
A. M., after which only dozing. Wakes with a start,
sleep disturbed by dreams. Sleepless, on account men-
tal activity; flow of ideas, with nervous excitability.
Disturbed by itching of anus.

Respiratory. — Short, dry cough of measles in nerv-
ous, delicate children,

Heart. — Violent irregular palpitation especially after
excessive joy or surprise. Rapid high tension pulse
and urinary suppression.

Extremities. — Crural neuralgia; worse, motion, af-
ternoon and night; better, by pressure.

Modalities. — Worse, excessive emotions (joy), nar-
cotics, strong odors, noise, open air, told, night. Better,
warmth, from lying down; holding ice in mouth.

Relationship. — Incompatible: Camph.; Coccul. Com-
plementary: Acon. ,

Compare: Coffea tosta (excruciating facial neuralgia
from decayed teeth); Acon.; Cham.; Nux; Cyp.; Caf-
fein and plants containing it, as Kola, Thea, etc.

Strong black coffee, drunk as hot as possible, is in-
dispensable as an antidote in a large number of poisons,
especially narcotics, Hot coffee by rectum in cases of
extreme collapse. Caffein is a direct heart stimulant.
260 COFFEA CRUDA — COLCHIUM

Raises the blood pressure, increases pulse rate and
stimulates the muscles of the heart. It is given to
support the heart in extreme feebleness or threatened
failure. Stimulates the respiratory centre, nerve cen-
tres and increases diuresis. Use the Caffeine Sodio-
Salicylas, 1-4 grains, hypodermically. Caffcin, one of
the best stimulants to act on the vaso-motor centres.

Antidotes: Nux; Tabac.
Dose. — Third to two hundredth potency.

COLCHICUM
(Meadow Saffron)

Affects markedly the muscular tissues, periosteum,
and synovial membranes of joints. Has specific power
of relieving the gouty paroxysms. It seems to be more
beneficial in chronic affections of these parts. The parts
are red, hot. swollen. Tearing pains; worse, in the
evening and at night and from touch; stubbing the
toes hurts exceedingly There is always great prostra-
tion, internal coldness, and tendency to collapse. Ef-
fects of night watching and hard study. Shocks as
from electricity through one half of body.

Head. — Headache chiefly frontal and temporal, byt
also occipital and in nape of neck, worse afternoon and
evening.

Eyes. — Pupils unequal; left pupi! contracted. Va-
riations in visual acuity. Lachrymation worse in open
air; violent tearing pain in eyes. Dim vision after read-
ing. Spots before eyes.

Ears. — I{ching in ears; sharp, shooting pains below
fight tragus.
COLCHICUM 261

Face. — Pain in facial muscles, moving about. Ting-
ling and cedematous swelling; cheeks red, hot, sweaty.
Very irritable with the pains. [Cham.] Pain behind
angle of right lower jaw.

Stomach. — The smell of food causes nausea even to
fainting, especially fish. Profuse salivary secretion.
Vomiting of mucus, bile and food; worse, any motion;
great coldness in stomach. Craving for various things,
but is averse to them when smelling them, seized then
with nausea. Gouty gastralgia. Abdomen immensely
distended with gas. Burning or icy coldness in stomach
and abdomen. Thirst for effervescent, alcoholic bever-
ages. Pain in transverse colon.

Abdomen. — Distention of abdomen, inability to
stretch out legs. Borborygmi. Pain over liver.
Cacum and ascending colon much distended. Fullness
and continuous rumbling.

Stool. — Painful, scanty, transparent, jelly-like mu-
cus; pain, as if anus were torn open, with prolapse.
Autumnal dysentery; stools contain white shreddy par-
ticles in large quantities. Ineffectual pressing; feels
feces in rectum, but cannot expel them.

Female. — Pruritus of genitals. Cold feeling in thigh
after period. Sensation of swelling in vulva and
clitoris.

Urine. — Dark, scanty or suppressed; bloody, brown,
black, inky; contains clots ‘of putrid decomposed blood,
albumin, sugar.

Heart. — Anxiety in region of heart. Impulse not
felt. Pericarditis, with severe pain, oppression and
dyspneea, pulse threadlike. Sounds of heart become
weaker, pulse of low tension.

Extremities.— Sharp pain down left arm. Tearing
in limbs during warm weather, stinging during cold.
262 COLCHICUM — COLLINSONIA CANADENSIS

Pins and needles in hands and wrists, fingertips numb.
Pain in front of thigh. Right plantar reflex abolished.
Limbs, lame, weak, tingling. Pain worse in evening
and warm weather. Joints stiff and feverish; shifting
rheumatism; pains worse at night. Inflammation of
great toe, gout in heel, cannot bear to have it touched
or moved, Tingling 7 in the finger nails.

Back. — Aching in lumbar and lumbo-sacral region.
Dull pain across loins. Backache, better, rest and pres-
sure.

Sk'n.— Blotchy papular rash on face. Pink spots
on hack, chest and abdomen. Urticaria.

Modalities. — IV’orse, sundown to sunrise; motion,
loss of sleep, smell of food in evening, mental exertion.
Better, stooping. .

Relationship. — Antidotes: Thuja; Camph.; Coccul.,
Nux; Puls.

Compare: Colchicine (intestinal catarrh with shreddy
membranes; convulsive jerkings of right hand; intense
pain of rheumatism 3x trit.). Also, Carbo; Arnica;
Lilium, rsen.; Verat.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth attenuation.

COLLINSONIA CANADENSIS
(Stone-Root)

Pelvic and portal congestion, resulting in hemorrhoids
and constipation, especially in females. Depressed ar-
terial tension, general atony of muscular fiber. Chronic
nasal, gastric, and pharyngeal catarrh, due to portal ob-
struction. Dropsy from cardiac disease. Pruritus in
pregnancy, with piles. Constipation of children from
intestinal atony. Said to be of special value when given

fore operations, for rectal diseases.
COLLINSONIA CANADENSIS 263

Head.— Dull frontal headache; from suppressed
hemorrhoids. Chronic catarrh. Yellow-coated tongue.
Bitter taste. [Colocy.; Bry.]

Rectum. — Sensation of sharp sticks in rectum. Dry
faces. Most obstinate constipation, with protruding
hemorrhoids. Aching in anus and hypogastrium. Con-
stipation during pregnancy; with membranous dysmen-
orrhoea, following labor. [Nux.] Painful hleeding
piles. Dysentery, with tenesmus. Alternate constipa-
tion and digrrhea, and great flatulence. Jtchiny of
anus. [Teucrium; Ratanh.]

Female. -— Dysmenorrheea; pruritus of vulva; pro-
lapse of womb; swelling and dark redness of genitals;
pain on sitting down. Membranous dysmenorrhcea, with
constipation. Pruritus. Cold feeling in thighs after
menstruation. Sensation of swelling of labia and of
clitoris.

Respiratory.— Cough from excessive use of voice,
sharp pain in larynx. Hoarseness. Harassing, dry
cough.

Heart. — Palpitation; rapid but weak. Dropsy. After
heart symptoms relieved, piles or menses return. Chest-
pains alternate with hemorrhoids. Oppression, faint-
ness, and dyspnoea. [Acon. ferox.]

Modalities. — Worse, from the slightest mental emo-
tion or excitement; cold. Better, heat.

Relationship. — Antidote: Nux,

Compare: Zscul.; Aloes; Haman.; Lycopus; Ne-
gundo; Sulph.; Nux.

Dose. — Tincture, to third attenuation. Higher po-
tencies where there is organic heart affection.
264 COLOCYNTHIS

COLOCYNTHIS
(Bitter Cucumber)

Often indicated in the transition season when the air
is cold, but the sun is still powerful enough to heat the
blood.

Develops most of its symptoms in the abdomen and
Ihead, causing intense neuralgias. It is especially suit-
table for irritable persons easily angered, and ill effects
therefrom. Women with copious menstruation, and of
sedentary habits. Persons with a tendency to cor-
pulency. The neuralgic pains are nearly -always re-
lieved by pressure. Cramps and twitching and shorten-
mg of muscles. Cysto-spasm following operations on
orifices. [Hyper.] Urinous odor of perspiration.
[Berb.; Nitr. ac.] Agonizing pain in abdomen, causing
patient to bend double, is most characteristic. Sensa-
tions: Cutting, twisting, grinding, contracting and
bruised; as if clamped with iron bands,

Mind. — Extremely irritable. Becomes angry when
questioned. Mortification caused by offense. Anger,
with indignation. [Cham.; Bry.; Nux.]

Head.—- Vertigo when turning head to the left.
Lateral cutting headache, with nausea, vomiting. Pains
(better pressure and heat), with soreness of scalp.
Burning pains, digging, rending, and tearing. Frontal
headache; worse, stooping, lying on back, and moving
eyelids.

Eyes. — Pains sharp, boring, better pressure. Sensa-
tion on stooping, as if eye would fall out.

Face. — Tearing, shooting, and swelling of face; left
side great soreness. Get relief from pressure. [China.]
Neuralgia, with chilliness; teeth seems too long. Sounds
re-echo im ears. Pain in stomach, always with pain of
teeth or head.
COLOCYNTHIS 265

Stomach. — Very bitter taste. Tongue rough, as from
sand, and feels scalded. Canine hunger. Feeling in
stomach as if something would not yield; drawing
pain,

Abdomen. — Agonizing cutting pain in abdomen
causing patient to bend over double, and pressing on the
abdomen. Sensation as if stones were being ground
together in the abdomen, and would burst. Intestines
feel as if bruised. Colic with cramps in calves. Cut-
ting in abdomen, especially after anger. Each paroxysm
is attended with general agitation and a chill over the
cheeks, ascending from the hypogastrium. Pain in
small spot below navel. Dysenteric stool renewed each
time by the least food or drink. Jelly-like stools.
Musty odor. Distention.

Female.— Boring pain in ovary. Must draw up
double, with great restlessness. Round, small cystic
tumors in ovaries or broad ligaments. Wants abdomen
supported by pressure Bearing-down cramps, causing
her to bend double. [Opium.]

Urine. — Intense burning along urethra during stool.
Vesical catarrh, discharge like fresh white of egg.
Viscid. [Phos. acid] fetid; small quantities, with fre-
quent urging. Itching at orifice. Red, hard crystals,
adhering firmly to-vessel. Tenesmus of bladder. Pains
on urinating over whole abdomen.

Extremities. — Contraction of muscles. Pain in right
deltoid. [Guaco.] Cramp-like pain in hip; lies on af-
fected side. Spontaneous luxation of the hip-joints.
Stiffness of joints and shortening _ of tendons. Sciatic
pain, left side, drawing, tearing; better, pressure and
heat; worse, gentle touch. Contraction of the muscles.
Pain down right thigh; muscles and tendons feel too
short; numbness with pains. [Gnaphal.] Pain im left
knee joint. ‘
266 COLOCYNTHIS — COMMOCLADIA DENTATA

Modalities. — Worse, from anger and indignation.
Better, doubling up, hard pressure, warmth, lying with
head bent forward.

Relationship. — Antidote: Coffea; Staphis.; Cham.

Compare: Lobelia erinus (violent cork-screw-like
pains in abdomen). Dipodium punctatum (Writhing.
Twisting like a dying snake. Intractable insomnia.)
Dioscor.; Chamom.; Coccul.; Merc.; Plum.; Magn.
phos.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

COMOCLADIA DENTATA
(Guao)

Important eye and skin symptoms. Affections of an-
trum. Sacro-iliac and abdominal pain. Throbbing pains
worse by heat.

Eyes. — Ciliary neuralgia with eyes feeling large and
protruded, especially right. Pain in right eye; worse,
near warm stovc; feels as if pressed outward. Sees
only glimmer of light with left eye. Glaucoma, sense
of fullness; eyeball feels too large. Motion of eyes
aggravates.

Face. — Swollen, with eyes projecting.

Skin. — itches, red and pimples. Redness all over,
like scarlatina, Erysipelas. Deep ulcers, with hard
edges. Leprosy. Red stripes on -skin. [Euphorb.]
Eczema (papular) of the trunk and extremities; also
pustular type.

Chest.—- Acute pain in left mammary gland. Pain
from right side of chest down arm to fingers. Cough
with pain under left breast, going through to left
scapula.

Modalities. — Better, open air, scratching ; by motion.
Worse, touch, warmth, rest; night.

_ Relationship. — Compare: Rhus; Anacard.; Euphorb.
.. Dose. — First to thirtieth potency.
266 COLOCYNTHIS — COMMOCLADIA DENTATA

Modalities. — Worse, from anger and indignation.
Better, doubling up, hard pressure, warmth, lying with
head bent forward.

Relationship. — Antidote: Coffea; Staphis.; Cham.

Compare: Lobelia erinus (violent cork-screw-like
pains in abdomen). Dipodium punctatum (Writhing.
Twisting like a dying snake. Intractable insomnia.)
Dioscor.; Chamom.; Coccul.; Merc.; Plum.; Magn.
phos.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

COMOCLADIA DENTATA
(Guao)

Important eye and skin symptoms. Affections of an-
trum. Sacro-iliac and abdominal pain. Throbbing pains
worse by heat.

Eyes. — Ciliary neuralgia with eyes feeling large and
protruded, especially right. Pain in right eye; worse,
near warm stovc; feels as if pressed outward. Sees
only glimmer of light with left eye. Glaucoma, sense
of fullness; eyeball feels too large. Motion of eyes
aggravates.

Face. — Swollen, with eyes projecting.

Skin. — itches, red and pimples. Redness all over,
like scarlatina, Erysipelas. Deep ulcers, with hard
edges. Leprosy. Red stripes on -skin. [Euphorb.]
Eczema (papular) of the trunk and extremities; also
pustular type.

Chest.—- Acute pain in left mammary gland. Pain
from right side of chest down arm to fingers. Cough
with pain under left breast, going through to left
scapula.

Modalities. — Better, open air, scratching ; by motion.
Worse, touch, warmth, rest; night.

_ Relationship. — Compare: Rhus; Anacard.; Euphorb.
.. Dose. — First to thirtieth potency.
CONDURANGO — CONIUM 267

CONDURANGO
(Condor Plant)

Stimulates the digestive functions and thus improves
the’ general health. Allays the pain in gastralgia ac-
companying cancer of stomach. Modifies secretions of
digestive glands. Varicose ulcers. Lupus.

Painful cracks in corner of mouth is a guiding symp-
tom of this drug. Chronic gastric catarrh, syphilis, and
cancer. Tumors; stricture of cesophagus. The active
principle [Condurangin] produces locomotor ataxia.

Stomach. —. Painful affections of the stomach; ulcera-
tion. Vomiting of food, and indurations, constant burn-
ing pain. Stricture of cesophagus, with burning pains
behind sternum, where food seems to stick. Vomiting
of food, and indurations in left hypochondrium with
constant burning pain.

Skin. — Fissures form about the muco-cutaneous out-
lets. Epithelioma of lips or anus. Ulcerative stage of
carcinoma cutis when fissures form.

Relationship.— Compare: Astcrias; Conium; Hy-
drast.; Arsenic.

Dose. — Tincture, or bark, 5-grain doses before meals
in water.

CONIUM
(Poison Hemlock)

An old remedy, rendered classical by Plato’s graphic
description of its employment in the death of Socrates.
The ascending paralysis it produces, ending in death by
failure of respiration, shows the ultimate tendency of
many symptoms produced in the provings, for which
Conium is an excellent remedy, such as difficult gait,
268 CONIUM

trembling, sudden loss of strength while walking, pain-
ful stiffness of legs, ete. Such a condition is often
found in old age, a time of weakness, languor, local
congestions, and sluggishness. This is the special en-
vironment that Conium chooses to manifest its action.
It corresponds to the debility, hypochondriasis, urinary
troubles, weakened memory, sexual debility found here.
Troubles at the change of life, old maids and bachelors.
Growth of tumors invite it also. General feeling as if
bruised by blows. Great debility in the morning in bed.
Weakness of body and mind, trembling, and palpitation.
Cancerous diathesis. Arterio-sclerosis. Caries of ster-
num. Enlarged glands. Acts on the glandular system,
engorging and indurating it, altering its structure like
scrofulous and cancerous conditions. ‘Loni¢ after grippe.
Insomnia_of multiple neuritis.

ne

Mind. — Excitement causes mental depression. De-
pressed, timid, averse to society, and afraid of being
alone. No inclination for business or study; takes no
interest in anything. Memory weak; unable to sustain
any mental effort.

Head. — Vertigo, when lying down, and when turning
over in bed, when turning head sidewise, or turning
eyes; worse, shaking head, slight noise or conversation
of others, especially towards the left. Headache, stupe-
fying, with nausea and vomiting of mucus, with a feel-
ing as of foreign body under the skull. Scorched feel-
ing on top. Tightness as if both tempies were com-
pressed; worse after a meal. [Gels.; Atrophine.]
Bruised, semilateral pains.

Eyes.— Photophobia and excessive lachrymation
Corneal pustules. Dim-sighted; worse, artificial light.
On closing eyes. he sweats. Paralysis of ocular mus-
cles. [Caust.] In superficial inflammations, as in
phiyctenular conjunctivitis and keratitis. The slightest
CONIUM 269

ulceration or abrasion will cause the intensest photo-
phobia.

Ears. — Defective hearing; discharge from ear blood
colored.

Nose. — Bleeds easily — becomes sore. Polypus.

Stomach. — Soreness about the root of tongue. Ter-
rible nausea, acrid heartburn, and acid eructations;
worse on going to bed. Painful spasms of the stomach.
Amelioration from eating and aggravation a few, hours
after 1 meals; acidity and burning ; painful spot the level
of the sternum. i.

Abdomen. — Severe aching in and around the liver.
Chronic jaundice, and pains in right hypochondrium.
Sensitive, bruised, swollen, knife-like pains. Painful
tightness

Stool.— Frequent urging; hard, with tenesmus.
Tremulous weakness after every stool. [Verat.; Ars.;
Arg. n.) Heat and burning in rectum during stool.

Urine. — Much difficulty in voiding. Jt flows and
stops again, [Ledum.] Interrupted discharge. [Cle-
matis.] Dribbling in old men. [Copatva.]

Male. — Desire increased; power decreased. Sexual
nervousness, with feeble erection. Fffects of sup-
presscd sexuai appetite. Testicles hard and enlarged.

Female. — Dysmenorrhaa, with drawing-down thighs.
Mamme lax and shrunken, herd, painful to touch.
Stitches in nipples. Wants to press breast hard with
hand. Menses delayed and scanty; parts sensitive.
Breasts enlarge and become painful before and during
menses. [Calc c.; Lac can.] Rash before menses.
Itching around pudenda. Unready conception. Indura-
tion of os and cervix. Ovaritis; ovary enlarged, in-
durated; lancinating pain. III effects of repressed sex-
270 CONIUM

ual desire or suppressed menses, or from excessive in-
dulgence. Leucorrhoea after micturition.

Respiratory. — Dry cough, almost continuous, hack-
ing: worse, evening and at night; caused by dry spot
in larynx with itching in chest and throat, when lying
down, talking or laughing, and during pregnancy. Ex-
pectoration only after long coughing. Want of breath
on taking the least exercise; oppressed breathing, con-
striction of chest; pains in chest.

Back. —- Dorsal pain between shoulders. II! effects of
bruises and shocks to spine. Coccyodynia.

Extremities, — Heavy, weary, paralyzed; trembling;
hands unsteady; fingers and toes numb. Muscular
weakness, especially of lower extremities. Perspira-
tion of hands. Putting fect on chair relicves pain.

Skin. — Axillary glands pain, with numb feeling down
arm. Induration after contusions. Yellow skin, with
papular eruption: vellow finger-nails Giunds enlarged
and induraied, also mesenteric. Flying stitches through
the glands. Tumors; piercing pains; worse, at night.
Chronic ulcers with fetid discharge. Sweat as soon as
one sle eps, or even when closing eyes. Night and morn-
ing sweat, with offensive odor, and smarting in skin.

Modalities. — Worsc, lying down, turning or rising in
hed; celibacy; before and during menses, from taking
cold, hodily or mental exertion. Relter, while fasting,
in the dark, from letting 1imbs hang down, motion and
pressure.

Relationship. — Compare: Scirrhinum— Cancer no-
sode — (cancerous diathesis; enlarged glands; cancer
of breast; worms); Barvt.; Hydrast.; Iod.; Gels.:
Hyos.: Curare,

Dose, — Best in higher potencies given infrequently,

especially for growths, paretic states, etc. Otherwise
sixth to thirtieth.
CONVALLARIA MAJALIS 271

CONVALLARIA MAJALIS
(Lily of the Valley)

A heart remedy. Increases energy of hearts’ action,
renders it more regular. Of use when the ventricles are
overdistended and dilatation begins, and when there is
an absence of compensatory hypertrophy, and when
venous stasis is marked. Dyspnoea, dropsy, aneuric ten-
dency,

Mind and Head.-—Dull intellect. Grieves easily.
Dull headache; worse, ascending, hawking. Scalp sen-
sitive. Irritability. Hysterical manifestations.

Face.— Hydroa in nose and lips; raw and_ sore.
Epistaxis. Sees imaginary gray spot about three inches
square,

Mouth. — Grating of teeth in the morning. Coppery
taste. Tongue feels sore and scalded; broad and thick
with heavy, dirty coating.

Throat. — Raw feeling in back of throat when in-
spiring.

Abdomen. — Sensitive. Clcthes feel too tight. Gur-
gling and pain on taking deep breath. Movement in
abdomen like fist of a child. Colicky pains.

Urinary Organs.— Aching in bladder; feels dis-
tended. Frequent urination; offensive.

Female.—Great soreness in uterine region, with
sympathetic palpitation of heart. Pain in sacro-iliac
joints, running down leg. Itching at urinary meatus
and vaginal orifice.

Respiratory.— Pulmonary congestion. Orthopneea.
Dyspnea while walking. Hot feeling in throat.

Heart.— Feeling as if ‘heart beat throughout the
chest. Endocarditis, with extreme orthopncea. Sensa-
tion as if heart ceased beating, then starting very sud-
272 CONVALLARIA MAJALIS — COPAIVA

denly. Palpitation from the least exertion. Tobacco
heart, especially when due to cigarettes. Angina pec-
toris. Extremely rapid and irregular pulse.

Back and Extremities. — Pain and aching in lum-
bar region; aching of legs; in big toe. Trembling of
hands. Aching in wrists and ankles.

Fever. — Chilly in back and down spine, followed by
fever, little sweat. Thirst and headache during chill.
Dyspnoea during fever.

Relationship. — Compare: Digil.; Crateg.; Lilium;
Adonis (feeble heart action due only to functional dis-
turbance).

Modalities. — Better, in open air. Worse, in warm
room.

Dose.— Third attenuation, and for symptotns of
heart failure, tincture, one to fifteen drops.

COPAIVA
(Balsam of Copaiva)

Acts powerfully on mucous membranes, especially
that of the urinary tract, the respiratory organs, and
the skin, here producing a well-marked nettle-rash.

Head. — Excessive sensitiveness; pain in occiput.
Dull, frontal headache, passes to occiput and back again,
with throbbing, worse right side and motion. Scalp
sensitive. Sensitivesto sharp sounds.

Nose. — Rawness and soreness of nostrils with stop-
ped-up feeling; dryness of posterior nares. Profuse,
thick, fetid discharge from nasal passages, running
down throat at night. Burning and dryness, crusts on
ere bones. Marked catarrhal condition in upper

piratory tract.
COPAIVA 273

Stomach. — Food seems too salty. Gastric troubles
during menstruation or following urticaria. Gas and
intestinal flatulence, urging to stool and difficult passage
with pain.

Urinary. — Burning pressure; painful micturition by
drops. Retention, with pain in bladder, anus, and rec-
tum. Catarrh of bladder; dysuria. Swelling of orifice.
Constant desire to urinate. Urine smells of violets.
Greenish, turbid color; peculiar pungent odor.

Rectum. -- Stools covered with mucus, with colic and
chilliness. Burning and itching of anus, caused by piles.

Male. — Testicles sensitive and swollen.

Female. -— Itching of vulva and anus, with bloody
purulent discharge. Profuse, strong-smelling men-
strual discharge, with pains radiating to hip bones, with
nausea.

Respiratory. — Cough, with profuse, gray, purulent
expectoration. Tickling in larynx, trachea, and bronchi.
Bronchial catarrh, with profuse greenish, offensive dis-
charge.

Skin. — Hives, with fever and constipation. Roseola.
Erysipelatous inflammation, especially around abdomen.
Circumscribed, lenticular patches, with itching; mottled
appearance. Chronic urticaria in children. Bullous
eruptions.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Bell.; Merc.

Compare: Cannab.; Canth.; Barosma; Cubeb; Apis;
Vespa; Erig.; Senecio; Santalum (aching in kidneys ;
genorrhaea) ; Sepia.

Dose. — First to third attenuation.
274 CORALLIUM

CORALLIUM
(Red Coral)

The provings of coral develop much coryza and epis-
taxis, and even ulceration within the nostrils. It is to
be thought of for whooping and spasmodic coughs, es-
pecially when the attack comes on with a very rapid
cough, and the attacks follow so closely as to almost
run into each other. Often preceded by sensation of
smothering, followed by exhaustion. Congestion of
face after dinner. Patient becomes purple in face.
Violence of paroxsym, even with expectoration of blood.
Feeling as if cold air were streaming through skull and
air-passages. One is too cold when uncovered and too
hot when covered; relieved by artificial heat.

Head. — Feels very large; violent pain as if parietal
bones were forced apart; worse stooping. Eyes hot
and painful.

Nose. — Odors of smoke, onions, etc., Painful ulcer in
nostrils. Profuse secretion of mucus dropping through
posterior nares; air feels cold. Dry coryza; nose stop-
ped up and ulcerated. Epistaxis.

Mouth. — Food tastes like sawdust. Bread tastes like
straw. Beer tastes sweet. Pain in articulation of left
lower jaw. “Craves salt.

Respiratory. — Hawking of profuse mucus. Throat
very sensitive, especially to air. Profuse, nasal ca-
tarrh. Inspired air feels cold. [Cistus.] Profuse se-
cretion of mucus dropping through posterior nares.
Dry, spasmodic, suffecative cough; very rapid cough,
short, barking. Cough with great sensitiveness of air-
passages: feel cold on deep inspiration. Continuous
hysterical cough. Feels suffocated and greatly ex-
hausted after whooping-cough.
CORALLIUM — CORALORHIZA — CORNUS CIRCINATA 275

Male.— Ulcers on glans and inner prepuce, with
yellow ichor. Emissions and weakened sexual power.
Profuse perspiration of genitals.

Skin. — Red, flat ulcers. Coral-colored, then dark
red spots, changing to copper-colored spots. Psoriasis
of palms and soles.

Relationship. — Complementary: Sulph.

Compare: Bellad.; D+oser.; Mephit.; Caust.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth attenuation.

CORALORHIZA
(Crawley Root)

Hectic fever, coming on 9 to 10 a.M., and lasting
till midnight. Intensely nervous and restless, burning
of palms and soles; no thirst, chill or perspiration.
Can bear only slightest covering.

CORNUS CIRCINATA
(Round-leaved Dogwood)

Chronic malaria, hepatitis, jaundice. Weakness in
morning. Pain in pit of stomach, with distended ab-
domen. Vesicular eruption associated with chronic liver
disease or aphthous stomatitis.

Mouth. — Ulceration of tongue, gums and mouth;
aphthe. Burning in mouth, throat and stomach.

Stool. — Loose, windy, dark stool, immediately after
dinner. Burning in anus. Dark, bilious, offensive diar-
rhea, with sallow complexion.

Skin. — Vesicular eczema of face in infants, with
nursing sore mouth.

Relationship.— Compare: Cornus alternifolia —
Swamp Walnut — (Weak and tired; disturbed sleep,
fever, restlessness, eczema; skin cracked; chest feels
cold, as if full of ice) ; Cornus florida (chronic malaria;
indigestion and distressing acid heartburn; general
276 CORNUS CIR. — CORYDALIS — COTYLEDON

debility from loss of fluids and night sweats; neuralgic
pains in arms, chest, and trunk, and sensation as if
broken in two; intermittent fever, with drowsiness;
feels cold, but is warm to touch; great exhaustion in in-
tervals; general clammy sweat. Chill is preceded by
drowsiness, heat is associated with drowsiness).
Dose. — Tincture to sixth attenuation.

CORYDALIS (DICENTRA CANADENSIS)
(Turkey-pea)

Syphilitic affections. Ulcers of mouth and fauces.
Cancer cachexia pronounced. Gummata and _ night-
pains. Chronic diseases, with atony. Tongue clean,
broad, and full. Tissues flabby, doughy, cold. Gastric
catarrh. [Hydrast.]

Skin. — Dry, scaly scahs on face of old people. Lym-
phatic glands swollen.

Relationship. — Nit. ac.; Kali iod., Fluor, ac.

Dose. — Tincture.

COTYLEDON
(Pennywort)

Marked action on heart; oppression of chest; fulness
in throat. Epilepsy. Numb aching in muscular and
fibrous tissue. Sciatica. Well-marked pains through
the breast to scapula. Catarrh of larynx and trachea.
Hysterical joint.

Mind. — Lost, confused feeling. Could not articulate
for some time on awaking. Pressing vertex headache.
Ailments from suppressed emotion. Feeling as if a
part of the body were absent.

Breast. — Pain under left nipple, and aching in right
breast. Pain through to scapula from region of left
breast. Pain at angles of scapulz. Full, bursting feel-
276 CORNUS CIR. — CORYDALIS — COTYLEDON

debility from loss of fluids and night sweats; neuralgic
pains in arms, chest, and trunk, and sensation as if
broken in two; intermittent fever, with drowsiness;
feels cold, but is warm to touch; great exhaustion in in-
tervals; general clammy sweat. Chill is preceded by
drowsiness, heat is associated with drowsiness).
Dose. — Tincture to sixth attenuation.

CORYDALIS (DICENTRA CANADENSIS)
(Turkey-pea)

Syphilitic affections. Ulcers of mouth and fauces.
Cancer cachexia pronounced. Gummata and _ night-
pains. Chronic diseases, with atony. Tongue clean,
broad, and full. Tissues flabby, doughy, cold. Gastric
catarrh. [Hydrast.]

Skin. — Dry, scaly scahs on face of old people. Lym-
phatic glands swollen.

Relationship. — Nit. ac.; Kali iod., Fluor, ac.

Dose. — Tincture.

COTYLEDON
(Pennywort)

Marked action on heart; oppression of chest; fulness
in throat. Epilepsy. Numb aching in muscular and
fibrous tissue. Sciatica. Well-marked pains through
the breast to scapula. Catarrh of larynx and trachea.
Hysterical joint.

Mind. — Lost, confused feeling. Could not articulate
for some time on awaking. Pressing vertex headache.
Ailments from suppressed emotion. Feeling as if a
part of the body were absent.

Breast. — Pain under left nipple, and aching in right
breast. Pain through to scapula from region of left
breast. Pain at angles of scapulz. Full, bursting feel-
COTYLEDON — CRATZGUS 277

ing, as if from obstruction at the heart. Choking ful-
ness in throat. Breathing oppressed.

Extremities. — Aching in back and thighs. Aching in
all joints. Skin sensitive, rubbing of trousers causes
an acute sting. Legs and arms feel heavy and sore.

Relationship. — Compare: Ambra; Asafet.; Hepat-
ica; Ignatia; Lachesis.

Dose. — Tincture to third potency.

CRATAEGUS
(Hawthorn Berries)

Produces giddiness, lowered pulse, and air hunger
and reduction in blood-pressure. Acts on muscle of
heart, and is a heart tonic. No influence’on the endo-
cardium.

Myocarditis. Failing compensation. Jrregularity of
heari. Insomnia of aortic sufferers; anzmia; cedema;
cutaneous chilliness.

Chronic heart disease, with extreme weakness. Very
feeble and irregular heart action. General anasarca.
Very nervous, with pain in back of head and neck.
Collapse of typhoid. Hemorrhage from bowels. Cold
extremities, pallor; irregular pulse and breathing. Pain-
ful sensation of pressure in left side of chest below
the clavicle. Dyspepsia and nervous prostration, with
heart failure. In the beginning of heart mischief after
rheumatism. Aricriosclerosis. Said to have a solvent
power upon crustaceous and calcareous deposits in
arteries.

Head.— Apprehensive, despondent. Very nervous
and irritable, with pain in back of head and neck. Men-
tal dulness conjunctival iiritation nasal discharges.

Urinary. — Diabetes, especially in children.
278 CRATA:GUS — CROCUS SATIVA

Heart. — Fatty degeneration. Exireme dyspnea on
lcast exertion, without much increase of pulse. Pain
in region of heart and undcr Icft clavicle. Heart mus-
cles seem flabby, worn out. Cough. Heart dilaicd;
first sound weak. Pulse accelerated, irregular, inter-
mittent, Valvular murmurs, angina pectoris. Cutane-
ous chilliness, blueness of fingers and toes. Sustains
heart in infectious diseases.

Skin. — Excessive perspiration. Skin eruptions.

Sleep. — Insomnia of aortic patients.

Modalities. — Worse, in warm room. Better, fresh
air, quiet and rest.

Relationship. — Sirophantus; Digit.; Iberis; Naja;
Cactus.

Dose. — Fluid extract or tincture, one to fifteen
drops. Must be used for some time in order to obtain
good results.

CROCUS SATIVA
(Saffron)

Is a remedy often useful in hemorrhages that are
black and stringy. Tingling in various parts. Chorea
and hysterical affections. Frequent and extreme
changes in sensations and mental conditions. Drowsi-
ness and lassitude; better by literary labor.

Mind. — Vacillating; pleasant mania; sings and
laughs. Happy and affectionate; then angry. Sudden
changes from hilarity to melancholy. Vivid recollec-
tion from music heard. [Lyc.]

Head. —- Throbs, pulsates, during climacteric; worse
during menses.

Eyes. — Appearance as of electric sparks. Must wipe
eyes as if mucus or water were in them. Feeling im
eves as after violent weeping. Sensation as if she had
been looking through too sharp spectacles. Eyes feel
CROCUS SATIVA 279

as if in smoke. Ciliary neuralgia, pain from eyes to
top of head, Sensation as if cold air was rushing
through eye. [Fluor. ac.; Syph.] Asthenopia with ex-
treme photophobia.

Nose. — Epistaxis.

Stomach. — Obstinate constipation due to portal stag-
nation. Constipation in infants. Crawling and stitches
in anus. Sensotion of something alive in abdomen,
stomach, etc., especially on left side. [Calend.]

Female. — Sensation of something alive and moving in
stomach and in the abdomen, which is swoilen, or of
something dead and heavy. Threatened ahortion, es-
pecially when hemorrhage is dark and stringy. Urg-
ing of blood to genitals, Menses dark, viscid, too fre-
quent and copious, black and slimy. Uterine hemor-
rhage; clots with long strings; worse from least move-
ment. Jerking pain in interior of left breast, as if
drawn toward back by means of thread. [Crot. tig.]
A bounding feeling, as if something alive in right
breast.

Respiratory. — Wheezy cougn, with frothy expectora-
tion, containing threads Jike fine twine; worse, lying
down. Breath has offensive, sickly smell. Feeling as
if the uvula is elongated in hysterical patients.

Uzmorrhages. -- Dark, stringy, clotted. Epistaxis;
strings of dark blood hanging down the nose. Bloody
urine.

Back. — Sudden feeling of coldness in back as if cold
water were thrown over him; icy-cold extremities.

Extremities. — Spasmodic contractions and twitchings
of single set of muscles. Chorea and hysteria,with
great alterations of feeling. Whole upper extremity
falls asleep.
280 CROCUS SATIVA —CROTALUS HORRIDUS

Modalities. — Worse, lying down, hot weather, warm
room, in morning, fasting, before breakfast, looking
fixedly at an object. Better, in open air.

Relationship. — Antidote: Opium; Bell.

Compare: [pec.; Trillium; Plat.; China; Sabina.

Dose. — Tincture, to thirtieth attentuation.

CROTALUS HORRIDUS
(Rattlesnake)

Snake poisons are supposed to be chemically C yam.
hydrates of Soda and other salts. Alcohol is the nat-
ural solvent of these salts and is an antidote.

Low septic states. General disorganization of the blood,
hemorrhages and jaundice. A crotalin injection de-
creases the rate of coaguiation of the blood. In epilepsy
the average rate is far greater than in normal condi-
tions. Blood decomposition, hemorrhages (dark fluid
that forms no clots), tendency to carbuncles, malignant
scarlatina, yellow fever, the plague, cholera, give op-
porturity to use this remedy. Hemorrhagic diathesis.
Plague. Sleeps into his symptoms.

Mind.— Weeping mood; clouded perception and
memory; impatient. Loquacious, with desire to escape.
Sadness.

Head, — Vertigo, with weakness and trembling. Dull
heavy occipital pain, on right side and right eye. Head-
ache with pain in heart on lying on left side. Head-
ache; must walk on tip-toe to avoid jarring.

Eyes, — Very sensitive to light, especially lamp light.
Yellow color of eyes, Ilusions: blue colors. Ciliary
neuralgia; tearing, boring pain, as if a cut had been
made around eve. For absorption of intra-ocular
hemorrhages, into the vitreous, but particularly for non-
inflammatory retinal hamorrhages. Diplopia.
CROTALUS HORRIDUS 281

Ears. — Auditory vertigo. Blood oozes from ears.

Nose. — Epistaxis, blood black and stringy, ozena,
after exanthemata or syphilis.

Face.— Acne. Lips swollen and numb.  Leaden-
colored and yellow face. Lockjaw.

Mouth. — Tongue red and small, but feels swollen.
Tongue fiery red, dry in center, smooth and polished.
Moldy smell of breath. Fills up with saliva. Tongue
when protruding, goes to right.

Throat. — Dry, swollen, dark red. Spasm of cesopha-
gus; cannot swallow any solid substance. Tight con-
striction. Gangrenous, with much swelling.

Stomach, — Intolerance of clothing around stomach.
Unable to retain anything; violent vomiting of food;
bilious vomiting, vomiting of blood. Constant nausea
and vomiting every month, after mensturation. Can-
not lie on right side, without vomiting dark-green matter.
Black or coffee-grounds vomiting. Trembling, flutter-
ing feeling below the epigastrium. Intolerance of cloth-
ing about epigastrium. Faintness and sinking at
stomach, Ulceration of the stomach. Atonic dyspepsia.
Gastritis in chronic alcoholism.

Abdomen. — Distended, hot, and tender. Pain in
region of liver.

Stool. — Black, thin, offensive, like coffee-grounds.
Intestinal hemorrhage; blood dark, fluid, non-coagulable.
Blood oozes from rectum when standing or walking.

Female. — Prolonged menses. Dysmenorrhea; pain
extends down thighs, with aching in region of heart.
Uterine hemorrhage, with faintness at stomach. Puer-
peral fever; offensive lochia. Phlegmasia alba dolens.
Sensation as though uterus would drop out. Painful
drawing in uterine ligaments. Cannot keep legs still.
282 CROTALUS HORRIDUS

Urinary. — Dark, bloody urine. Casts. Inflamed kid-
ney. Albuminous, dark, scanty. [Merc. cor.]

Heart. — Action feeble, pulse tremulous. Palpitation,
especially at menstrual period.

Respiratory.— Cough, with bloody expectoration.
Tickling from a dry spot in larynx.

Extremities. — Hands tremble, swollen. Lower ex-
treimities go to sleep easily. Right-sided paralysis.

Fever.— Malignant fevers of a hemorrhagic or
putrescent character. Low bilious remittents, Yel-
low fever. Bloody sweat. Cerebrospinal meningitis.
[Cicuta; Cup. acet.]

Skin. — Sallow. Yellow color of the whole body.
Great sensitiveness of skin of right half of body. Pur-
pura hemorrhagica. Hemorrhage from every part of
body Bloody sweat. Chilblains, felons. Dissecting
wounds. Pustular eruptions. Insect stings. Post-vac-
cination eruptions. Dad effects of vaccination. Lym-
phangitis and septicemia. Boils, carbuncles, and erup-
tions are surrounded by purplish, mottled skin and
edema. Anthrax. Sore sensation relieved by pressure.

Sleep.-- Dreams of the dead. Starting in sleep.
Yawning. Smothering sensation when awaking.

Modalities. — Worse, right side; open air; evening
and morning; in spring, coming on of warm weather;
on awaking; damp and wet; jar.

Relationship.— Compare: Bothrops; Naja (more
nervous phenomena); Lachesis (more markedly worse
on left side); Elaps (preferable in otorrhcea and af
fections of right lung); Crotalus cascavella (thoughts
and dreams of death. A magnetic state is produced).
Bungerus (poliomyelitis).

Antidote: Lach.; Alcohol.

Dose, — Third to sixth potency.
CROTON TIGLIUM 283 -

CROTON TIGLIUM
(Croton-oil Seed)

Is a valuable remedy in diarrhcea, summer complaint,
and skin affections, Feels tight all over. It is one of
the antidotes to Rhus poisoning, as is evident from its
wide and intense action upon skin and mucous surface,
causing both irritation and inflammation, with forma-
tion of vesicles aud mucous discharges. Has elective
affinity for skin of face and external genitals. Burn-
ing in the wsophagus.

Head. — Pressing pain in forehead, especially orbits.

Eyes. — Granular lids; pustules of cornea. Red and
raw appearance. Feel drawn backward. Eruptions
around eves. Tensive pain above right orbit.

Stool.— Copious watery stools, with much «urging;
always forcibly shot oui, with gurgling in intestines;
worse, drinking the least quantity, or even while eating.
Constant urging to stool, followed by sudden evacuation.
Swashing sensation in intestines.

Urine. — Night urine foaming; dark orange color;
turbid on standing; greasy particles floating on top.
Day urine is pale, with white sediment.

Chest. — Drawing- pain through the left chest into the
back. Asthma, with cough; cannot expand the chest.
Nursing women; every suck the child gives produces
pain from nipple back. Inflamed breasts. Cough; as
soon as he touches the pillow must get up. Sensitive to
deep breathing.

Skin.— Feels hide-bound. Intense itching; but
scratching ts painful. Pustular eruption, especially on
face and genitals, with fearful itching, followed by pain-
ful burning. Vesicles; confluent oozing. Vesicular
284 CROTON TIGLIUM — CUBEBA

erysipelas, itching exceedingly. Herpes zoster; stinging,
smarting pains of the eruption,

Modalities. — W orse, least food or drink; during
summer; touch, night and morning, washing.

Relationship.— Compare: Momordica charantia—
Hairy Mordica— (has marked drastic properties, pro-
ducing colic, nausea, vomiting, cholera-like symptoms,
abdomen seems full of fluid discharged explosively,
thin, watery, yellow. Great thirst). Rhus; Anagallis;
sAnacard.; Sepia.

Antidote: Ant. tart.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

CUBEBA
(Cubebs)

Mucous membranes generally, but especially that of
the urinary tract, are chiefly affected by this remedy.
Frequent urination of a nervous origin. Leucorrhoea in
little girls.

Urine. — Urethritis, with much mucus, especially in
women, Cutting after urination, with constriction.
Hematuria. Prostatitis, with thick yellow discharge.
Cystitis.

Respiratory. — Catarrh of nose and throat, with fetid
odor and expectoration. Mucus trickles from posterior
nares. Rawness of throat and hoarseness.

Relationship.-— Compare: Cucurbita; Copaiva; Piper
meth,; Sandal.

Dose. — Second and third attenuation.
CUCURBITA PEPO — CUCURBITA CIT.—CUPHEA 285

CUCURBITA PEPO
(Pumpkin Seed)

Intense nausea immediately after eating. Vomiting
of pregnancy, Seasickness.

Relationship. — Compare: Filix; Cuprum oxid. nig.

Dose. — Tincture. The seeds are a valuable remedy
for tape-worm Scald the seeds and peel off the outer
skins when softened, the green inner pulp being the
part used. Dose: two ounces of seed, yielding one of
pulp. May be mixed with cream and taken like por-
ridge. Take in morning after twelve hours’ fasting, and
follow in two hours by castor oil.

CUCURBITA CITRULLUS
(Seeds of Watermelon)

Infusion for painful urination with sense of constric-
tion and backache.

CUPHEA
(Flux-weed)

Vomiting of undigested food. Cholera infantum,
much acidity; frequent green, watery, acid stools.
Tenesmus and great pain.. High fever; restlessness,
and sleeplessness, Obstinate constipation.

Relationship. — Compare: A:thusa; Coto (intestinal
catarrh, chronic, copious, exhausting diarrhoea).

Typha latifolia (Cat-tail flag) diarrhoea, dysentery,
summer complaint of children. Tincture and frst at-
tenuation.

Dose. — Tincture.
286 CUPRUM ACETICUM — CUPRUM ARSENITUM

CUPRUM ACETICUM
(Acetate of Copper)

Hay-fever, with burning excoriation, paroxysmal
cough; tough, tenacious mucus, and fear of suffocation
Protracted labor.

Head. — Violent throbbing and lancinating pains in
forehead. Lift-sided brow ague. Brain seems void.
Inclined to gape and cry. Loses consciousness; head
reels when in high-ceiled room. Constant protrusion
and retraction of tongue. [Laches.]

Face. — Collapsed, hippocratic. Facial neuralgia in
cheek-bone, upper jaw, and behind right ear. Better by
chewing, pressure, and external warmth.

Stomach, — Violent spasmodic pains in stomach and
abdomen. Vomiting. Slimy brown diarrhoea. Violent
teresmus. Cholera.

Respiratory. — Violent spasmodic cough. Short, diffi-
cult respiration. Spasmodic constriction of chest.
Dyspncea.

Skin. — Leprous-like eruption, without itching, over
whole body, in spots of various sizes.

Modalities. — Worse, mental emotions, touch. Better,
chewing, pressure, night, lying on affected side, and
warmth.

Relationship. — Acts similarly to Cuprum met. but is
more violent in action.

Dose. -— Third to sixth trituration.

CUPRUM ARSENITUM
(Arsenite of Copper — Scheele’s Green)
A remedy for symptoms denending on deficient kid-

ney action; various intestinal affections, cholera mor-
bus and infantum, diarrhcea, and dysentery, Uremic
286 CUPRUM ACETICUM — CUPRUM ARSENITUM

CUPRUM ACETICUM
(Acetate of Copper)

Hay-fever, with burning excoriation, paroxysmal
cough; tough, tenacious mucus, and fear of suffocation
Protracted labor.

Head. — Violent throbbing and lancinating pains in
forehead. Lift-sided brow ague. Brain seems void.
Inclined to gape and cry. Loses consciousness; head
reels when in high-ceiled room. Constant protrusion
and retraction of tongue. [Laches.]

Face. — Collapsed, hippocratic. Facial neuralgia in
cheek-bone, upper jaw, and behind right ear. Better by
chewing, pressure, and external warmth.

Stomach, — Violent spasmodic pains in stomach and
abdomen. Vomiting. Slimy brown diarrhoea. Violent
teresmus. Cholera.

Respiratory. — Violent spasmodic cough. Short, diffi-
cult respiration. Spasmodic constriction of chest.
Dyspncea.

Skin. — Leprous-like eruption, without itching, over
whole body, in spots of various sizes.

Modalities. — Worse, mental emotions, touch. Better,
chewing, pressure, night, lying on affected side, and
warmth.

Relationship. — Acts similarly to Cuprum met. but is
more violent in action.

Dose. -— Third to sixth trituration.

CUPRUM ARSENITUM
(Arsenite of Copper — Scheele’s Green)
A remedy for symptoms denending on deficient kid-

ney action; various intestinal affections, cholera mor-
bus and infantum, diarrhcea, and dysentery, Uremic
CUPRUM ARSENITUM —CUPRUM METALLICUM 287

convulsions, headache, vertigo and unconscious condi-
tions resulting from brain cedema. Nephritis of preg-
nancy. Convulsions preceded by gastro-intestinal symp-
toms. Chlorosis, Bronchial asthma and with emphy-
sema. Painful neuroses, enteroptosis.

Mouth. — Tongue thickly coated, dirty brown, white,
metallic taste; thirst. Dry mouth.

Abdomen. — Gastro-enteritis. Violent abdominal pain.
Diarrhoea in phthisis. Cholera. |Adrs.; Verat.; Camp'.]
Rumbling and sharp cutting pain. Dark liquid stools.

Back. — Persistent lameness. Pain in lumbar region
and in lower left shoulder-blade; chest feels tight

Urinary. — Renal itiefficiency and uremia. Garlicky
odor. Diabetes. Urine of high specific gravity; in-
creased, acetones and diacetic acid.

Male. — Perspiration of scrotum; is constantly damp
and moist. Boils on scrotum. Purulent discharge of
a white color from urethra; tingling and burning in
urethra; pain in prostate; pains in penis.

Extremities. — Cramps in calves of legs, worse after
midnight, only relieved by getting out of bed and stand-
ing. Ulcers; gangrene.

Skin. — Cold, clammy perspiration of an intermittent
nature, Acne, pustules on face and in the cruro-genital
region; ulcers look like chancre. Gangrene; carbuncles.

Dose. — Second and third trituration.

CUPRUM METALLICUM
(Copper)

Spasmodic affections, cramps, convulsions, beginning
in fingers and toes, violent, contractive, and intermit-
ting pain, are some of the more marked expressions of
the action of Cuprum; and its curative range therefore
288 CUPRUM METALLICUM

includes tonic and clonic spasms, convulsions, and epi-
leptic attacks. Chorea brought on by fright. Nausea
greater than in any other remedy. In epilepsy, aura
begins at knees, ascends to hypogastrium; then uncon-
sciousness, foaming, and falling. Symptoms disposed
to appear periodically and in groups. Complaints begin
in left side. [Laches.]

Where eruptions strike in, as in scarlet fever, com-
plaints may result, such as excessive vomiting, stupor,
convulsions, which come within the sphere of this rem-
edy. The pains are increased by movement and touch.

Head. — Fixed ideas, malicious and morose. Uses
words not intended. Fearful. Empty feeling. Purple,
red swelling of head, with convulsions. Bruised pain in
brain and eyes on turning them. Meningitis. Sensation
as if water were poured over head.

Eyes. — Fixed, stary, sunken, glistening, turned up-
ward. Crossed. Quick rolling of eyeballs, with closed
eyes.

Face. — Distorted, pale bluish, with blue lips. Con-
traction of jaws, with foam at mouth.

Nose. —- Sensation of violent congestion of blood to
nose. [Melilot.]

Mouth.—Strong metallic, slimy taste. with flow of
saliva, Constant protrusion and retraction of the tongue,
like a snake. [Lach.] Paralysis of tongue. Stammer-
ing speech,

Stomach. — Hiccough preceding the spasms. Nausea.
Vomiting, relieved by drinking cold water; with colic,
diarrhea, spasms. Strong metallic taste. [Rhus.]
When drinking, the fluid descends with gurgling sound.
[Laur.] Craves cool drink,

Abdomen. — Tense, hot and tender to touch; cen-
tracted, Neuralgia of abdominal viscera. Colic, violent
and ititermittent. Intussusception.
CUPRUM METALLICUM 289

Stool. — Black, painful, bloody, with tenesmus and
weakness. Cholera; with cramps in abdomen and
calves,

Female. — Menses too late, protracted. Cramps, ex-
tending into chest, before, during, or after suppression
of menses. Also, from suppressed foot sweats. [Sil.]
Ebullition of blood; palpitation. Chlorosis. After-
pains.

Heart. — Angina pectoris. Slow pulse; or hard, full
and quick. Palpitation, precordial anxiety and pain.
Fatty degeneration. [Phytol.]

Respiratory. — Cough has a gurgling sound, better by
drinking cold water. Suffocative attacks, worse 3 A.M.
[Am. c.] Constriction of chest; spasmodic asthma, al-
ternating with spasmodic vomiting. Whooping-cough,
— better, swallow water [Coust.] -— with vomiting and
spasms and purple face. Spasm of the glottis.
Dyspneea with epigastric uneasiness, Spasmodic dysp-
noea before menstruation.

Extremities. — Jerking, twitching of muscles. Cold-
ness of hands. Cramps in palms. Great weariness of
limbs. Cramps in calves and soles. Epilepsy; auro be-
gins in knees. Clenched thumbs. Clonic spasms, be-
ginning in fingers and toes.

Skin. — Bluish, marbled. Ulcers, itching spots, and
pimples at the folds of joimts.

Sleep. — Profound, with shocks in body. During sleep
constant rumbling in abdomen.

Modalities. — Worse, before menses; from vonniting.
Better, during perspiration, drinking cold water,

Relationship. — Antidotes: Bell.; Hepar; Camph.
Copper is found in Dulcum., Staphisag., Conium and
some other plants.
290 CUPRUM METALLICUM — CURARE

Complementary: Calc.

Compare: Cupr. sulph. (burning at vertex; incessant,
spasmodic cough; worse at night; tongue and lips
bluish; locally, Cupr. sulph. in 1-3 per cent. sol. in in-
operable sarcoma). Cupr. cyan, (meningitis basilaris) ;
Cholas terrapina (cramps in calves and feet; rheuma-
tism, with cramp-like pains); Plumb.; Nux; Veratr.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency. Cuprum oxydatum
nigrum 1x (all kinds of worms, including tape-worms
and trichinosis according to Zopfy’s 60 years’ experi-
ence).

CURARE — WOORARI
(Arrow-poison)

Muscular paralysis without impairing sensation and
consciousness. Paralysis of respiratory muscles. Re-
flex action diminished. Debility of the aged [Raryta]
and from loss of fluids. Catalepsy. Nervous debility.
Trismus. Glycosuria with motor paralysis. Curare de-
creases the output of adrenalin.

Mind. — Indecision; no longer wishes to think, or act
for herself.

Head. — Lancinating pains all over head, Head drawn
backward. Falling out of hair. Brain feels full of
fluid,

Eyes. — Sharp, stitching pains over right eye. Black
spots before vision. Ptosis of right side.

Ears.— Noises; unbearable earache. Lancinating
pains start from ears; extending down to legs, Swell-
ing of lobes of ear.

Nose.--Ozena. Tubercles on nose; fetid lumps of
ubus.

Face. — Facia! and buccal paralysis. Tongue and
CURARE — CYCLAMEN 291

mouth drawn. Red face. Tongue and movth drawn to
right.

Female, — Dysmenorrhcea. Menses too early, during
menses, colic, headache, kidney pain. Leucorrheea,
thick, purulent, offensive.

Respiratory. — Threatened paralysis of respiration on
falling asleep. Short breath. Short dry cough; pro-
vokes vomiting, followed by fainting. Chest sore to
pressure. Very distressing dyspnea.

Extremities. — Tired pain up and down spine. Arms
weak, heavy. Cannot lift the fingers. Weakness of
hands and fingers in pianists. Legs tremble; give way
in walking. Debility; paralysis. Catalepsy. Favors
development of corns. Reflexes lessened or abolished.

Skin. — Leprosy. Dirty-looking skin. Boils. Tuber-
cles on nose. Liver spots. Blood oozes through. Itch-
ing.

Modalities. — Worse, dampness, cold weather, cold
wind; 2 a.M.; right side.

Relationship. — Compare: Cystisin (motor paralysis) ;
Crotalus; Nux; Con, Curare antidotes Strychnin,.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

CYCLAMEN
(Sow-bread)

Anemic and chlorotic conditions. Affections of
uterus. Gastro-intestinal and genito-urinary tracts af-
fected, inducing secondary anemia and various reflexes.
Sleepiness, moroseness, and lassitude. Cough at night
while asleep without waking, especially in children.
[Cham.; Nitr. ac.]

Head.— Terrors of conscience. Grieves over duty
292 CYCLAMEN

neglected. Depression, with weeping and desire to be
alone. Aching in morning, with flickering before eyes;
sneezing with itching in ear. Vertigo; things turn in a
circle; better in the room; worse, open air. One-sided
headache, Frequent sneezing with itching in ears.

Eyes. — Dim vision, worse on waking, with spots be-
fore eyes. Flickering of various colors. Convergent
strabismus. Sees countless stars. Diplopia. Disturb-
ance of vision, associated with gastric disturbances.

Stomach.— Saliy taste; hiccough-like eructation
worse, fat food. Diarrhoea after every cup of coffee;
hiccough. Satiety after a few mouthfuls. Disgust for
meat, especially pork. Desire for lemonade.

Rectum. — Pain about anus and perineum, as if a spot
were suppurating, when walking or sitting.

Female. — Menses profuse, black, membranous, clot-
ted, too early, with labor like pains from back to pubes.
Flow less when moving about. Menstrual irregularities
with megrin and blindness, or fiery spots before eyes.
Hiccough during pregnancy. Post-partum hemorrhage,
with colicky bearing-down pains, with relief after gush
of blood. After menses, swelling of breasts, with milky
secretion,

Extremities. — Pains in parts where bones lie near
surface. Burning, serg puin in feels. Cramp-like con-
traction of right thumb and index finger. Pains in
periosteum. Chilblains.

Skin. — Acne in young women, pruritus better scratch-
ing and appearance of menses.

Modalities. — I{"orse, open air, evenings, sitting, stand-
ing, and cold water. Better, during menstrual flow,
by rhoving ahout, rubbing parts; in warm room, Jemon-
CYCLAMEN—CYFRIPEDIUM—DAPHNE INDICA 293

Relationship. — Compare: Ambra; Pulsat.; Cinchona;
Fer, cit, et Chin.

Dose. — Third attenuation.

CYPRIPEDIUM
(Yellow Lady’s Slipper)

The skin symptoms correspond to those of poison-
ing by Rhus, tor which it has been found an efficient
antidote. Nervousness in children; from teething and
intestinal troubles. Debility after gout. //ydrocepha-
lotd symptoms, result of long exhausting diarrhaa.
Sleeplessness,

Head. -- Child cries out at night; is wakeful and he-
gins to laugh and play. Headaches cf elderly people
and during climacteric.

Relationship. — Compare: .{mbra; Kali brom.; Scu-
tellai.;, Valerian; Ignat. Skin relatives: Grindclia;
Anacard.

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth attenuation. For Poison
Oak, 5 drops of tincture per dose, also locally.

DAPHNE INDICA
(Spurge Laurel)

Acts on lower tissues, muscles, bones and skin. Sud-
den, lightning jerks in different parts of the body.
Craving for tobacco. Burning in stomach. Parts of the
body feel separated. [Bapt.] Fetid breath, urine, sweat.

Head. — Feels as if skull would burst; as if head were
separated from body. Heat in head, especially in ver-
tex. Tongue coated on une side only. [Rhus.] Foul-
smelling, ptyalism hot.
294 DAPHNE INDICA — DIGITALIS

Urine. — Thick, turbid, yellowish, like rotten eggs.

Extremities. -- Right toe swollen, painful. Pain shoots
upward into abdomen and heart. Rheumatic pains in
thighs and knees. Cold feeling on buttocks. Shooting
pains, shift rapidly; worse, cold air.

Sleep. — Entire inability to sleep; sometimes caused
by aching in bones. Dreams, with nightmare. Dreams
of cats, black cats. Starting on falling to sleep with
chilliness and clamminess.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Bry.; Rhus.

Compare: Fluor, ac.; Aur.; Mes.; Staph.

Dose. — First to sixth attenuation.

DIGITALIS
(Foxglove)

Comes into play in all diseases where the heart is
primarily involved, where the pulse is weak, irregular,
intermittent, abnormally slow, and dropsy of external
and internal parts. Weakness and dilatation of the
myocaraium. Other symptoms of organic heart dis-
ease, such as great weakness and sinking of strength,
faintness, coldness of skin, and irregular respiration;
cardiac irritability and ocular troubles after tobacco;
jaundice from induration and hypertrophy of the liver,
frequently calls for Digitalis. Jaundice with heart dis-
ease. Faint, as if dying. Bluish appearance of face.
Cardiac muscular failure when asystole is present.
Stimulates the heart’s muscles, increases force of systole,
increases length. Prostration from slight exertion. Col-
lapse,

Mind. —- Despondency ; fearful: anrious about the
future. Dullness of sense. Every shock strikes in
epigastrium.
DIGITALIS 295

Head.— Vertigo, when walking and on rising.
Sharp, shooting frontal pain, extending into nose, after
drinking cold water or eating ice-cream. Heaviness of
head, with sensation as if it would fall backward. Face
bluish. Confusion, fullness and noise in head. Crack-
ing sounds during a nap. Blue tongue and lips.

Eyes. — Bluencss of eyelids. Dark bodies, like flies,
before eyes. Change in acutcness of perception of
shades of green, Objects appear green and yellow.
Mydriasis; lid margins red, swollen, agglutinated in
morning. Detachment of retina.

Stomach. -— Sweet taste with constant ptvalisni.
Excessive nausea, not relieved by vomiting. Faintness,
great weakness in stomach. Burning in stomach ex-
tending to esophagus, After cold water or ice-cream,
sharp pain in forehead, extending to nose. Faininess
and vomiting from motion. Discomfort, even after a°
small quantity of food, or from mere sight or smell.
Tenderness of epigastriwm. Copious salivation. Neu-
ralgic pain in stomach, unconnected with taking food.

Abdomen. —- Pain in left side apparently in descend-
ing colon and under false ribs. Severe abdominal pains,
pulsation in abdominal aorta, and epigastric constric-
tion. Enlarged, sore, painful liver.

Stool. — White, chalk-like, ashy, pasty stools. Diar-
rhea during jaundice.

Urine. — Continued urging, in drops, dark, hot,
burning, with sharp cutting or throbbing pain at neck
of bladder, as if a straw was being thrust back and
forth; worse at night. Suppressed. Ammoniacal, and
turbid. Urethritis, phimosis, strangury. Full feeling
after urination. Constriction and burning, as if urethra
was too small. Brick-dust sediment.

Female. — Labor-like pains in abdomen and back
before menses. Uterine hemorrhage.
296

Male. — Nightly emission [Digitalin], with great
weakness of genitals after coitus. Hydrocele; scrotum
enlarged like a bladder. Gonorrhcea, balanitis [Merc.],
with cedema of prepuce. Dropsical swelling of genitals.
[Sulph.] Enlarged prostate.

Respiratory.——Desire to take a deep breath.
Breathing irregular, difficult; deep sighing. Cough, with
raw, sore ‘feeling in chest. Expectoration sweetish.
Dyspnea. Senile pneumonia. Great weakness in chest.
Cannot bear to talk, Haemoptysis with weak heart.

Heart. — The least movement causes violent palpi-
tation, and sensation as if it would cease beating, if he
moves. [Opposite: Gels.] Frequent stitches in heart.
Irregular heart, especially of mitral discase. Very slow
pulse. Intermtits; weak. Cyanosis. Inequality of pulse;
it varies. Sudden sensation as if heart stood still.
Pulse weak, and quickened by least movement. Peri-
carditis, copious serous exudation.

Extremities. -- Swelling of the feet. Fingers go to
sleep easily. Coldness of hands and feet. Rheumatic
pain in joints. Shining, white swelling of joints. Mus-
cular debility. ;

Sleep.— Starts from sleep in alarm that he is falling
from a height. Continuous sleepiness.

Fever. — Sudden flushes of heat, followed by great
nervous weakness.

Skin. — Erythema, deep red, worse on back, like
measles. Blue distended veins on lids, ears, lips and
tongue. Dropsical. Itching and jaundiced.

Modalities. — Worse, when sitting erect, after meals
and music. Better, when stomach is empty; in open
air.

Relationship. —- Antidotes: Camph.; Serpentaria, In-

- compatible: China. Compare: Nerium odorum (re-
€Wgéinbles in heart effects Digitalis, but also has an action
296

Male. — Nightly emission [Digitalin], with great
weakness of genitals after coitus. Hydrocele; scrotum
enlarged like a bladder. Gonorrhcea, balanitis [Merc.],
with cedema of prepuce. Dropsical swelling of genitals.
[Sulph.] Enlarged prostate.

Respiratory.——Desire to take a deep breath.
Breathing irregular, difficult; deep sighing. Cough, with
raw, sore ‘feeling in chest. Expectoration sweetish.
Dyspnea. Senile pneumonia. Great weakness in chest.
Cannot bear to talk, Haemoptysis with weak heart.

Heart. — The least movement causes violent palpi-
tation, and sensation as if it would cease beating, if he
moves. [Opposite: Gels.] Frequent stitches in heart.
Irregular heart, especially of mitral discase. Very slow
pulse. Intermtits; weak. Cyanosis. Inequality of pulse;
it varies. Sudden sensation as if heart stood still.
Pulse weak, and quickened by least movement. Peri-
carditis, copious serous exudation.

Extremities. -- Swelling of the feet. Fingers go to
sleep easily. Coldness of hands and feet. Rheumatic
pain in joints. Shining, white swelling of joints. Mus-
cular debility. ;

Sleep.— Starts from sleep in alarm that he is falling
from a height. Continuous sleepiness.

Fever. — Sudden flushes of heat, followed by great
nervous weakness.

Skin. — Erythema, deep red, worse on back, like
measles. Blue distended veins on lids, ears, lips and
tongue. Dropsical. Itching and jaundiced.

Modalities. — Worse, when sitting erect, after meals
and music. Better, when stomach is empty; in open
air.

Relationship. —- Antidotes: Camph.; Serpentaria, In-

- compatible: China. Compare: Nerium odorum (re-
€Wgéinbles in heart effects Digitalis, but also has an action
DIGITALIS — DIOSCOREA VILLOSA 297

like Strychnia on spinal cord. Spasms appear more in
upper part of body. Palpitation; weak heart will be
strengthened by it. Lock-jaw). Adonis; Crategus (a
true heart tonic); Kalmia; Spigel.; Apocym.; Liatris;
Stroph. Compare also: Digitoxinum (Digitalis dis-
solved in Chloroform; which has yellow vision very
marked, and distressing nausea, aggravated by cham-
pagne and aerated waters.) Nitri. spir. dulc. increases
action of Digit. Ichthysioxvin, Eel Serum. (Experi-
ments show great analogy between the serum and the
venom of vipera. Indicated whenever the systole of
the heart is insufficient, decompensated valvular dis-
ease, irregular pulse due to fibrillation of the auricle.
Asytole, fceble, frequent, irregular pulse, dyspnoea and
scanty urine. Liver enlarged, dyspnoea, albuminuria.
No cedema )

Convallaria (heart disease with vertigo and digestive
disturbances).

Dose. — The third to thirtieth attenuation will bring
about reaction when the drug is homeceopathically in-
dicated; but for palliative purposes the physiological
dosage is required. For this purpose, the tincture
made from the fresh plant, in doses of five to fifteen
drops, when the cardiac stimulation is desired, or the
infusion of 1%4 per cent. Dose, one-half to one ounce
if the diuretic action is wanted. The tincture may he
given on sugar or bread, .and nothing liquid be taken
for twenty minutes before or after its administration.

DIOSCOREA VILLOSA
(Wild Yam)

As a remedy for many kinds of pain, especially colic,
and in severe, painful affections of abdominal and pel-
vic viscera; it ranks with the polychrests of the Ma-
298 DIOSCOREA VILLOSA

teria Medica. Persons of feeble digestive powers; tea-
drinkers, with much flatulence.

Mind. — Calls things by the wrong name.

Head. — Dull pain in both temples; better pressure,
but worse afterwards, Buzzing in head.

Stomach. — Belching of large quantities of offensive
gas. Neuralgia of stomach. Sinking at the pit of the
stomach; pyrosis. Pain along sternum and extending
into arms. Eructations of sour, bitter wind, with hic-
cough. Sharp pain in epigastrium, relieved by standing
erect.

Abdomen. — Pains suddenly shift to different parts;
appear in remote localities, as fingers and tocs. Rum-
bling, with emission of much flatus. Griping, cutting in
hypogastric region, with intermittent cutting in stomach
and small intestines, Colic; better walking about;
pains radiate from abdomen to back, chest, arms;
worse, bending forwards and while lying. Gallstone
colic. Sharp pams from liver, shooting upward to right
nipple. Pain from gall-bladder to chest, back, and
arms, Renal colic, with pain in extremities.

Heart. — Angina pectoris; pain back of sternum
into arms; labored breathing; feeble action of heart.
Especially with flatulence and pain through chest and
tightness across.

Rectum. —- Hemorrhoids, with darting pains to
liver; look like bunches of grapes or red cherries; pro-
trude after stool, with pain in anus. Diarrhoea (worse
in morning), yellowish, followed by exhaustion, as it
flatus and faces were hot,

Male. — Relatution and coldness of organs. Pains
shoot into testicles from region of kidneys. Strong-
smellimg sweat on scrotum and pubes. Emissions in
sleep, ¥r from sexual atony, with weak knees.
DIOSCOREA VILLOSA —— DIOSMA LINCARIS 299

Female, — Uterine colic; pains radiate from uterus.
Vivid dreams.

Respiratory. Tight feeling all along sternum.
Chest does not seem to expand on breathing. Short-
winded.

Extremities. — Lameness in back; worse, stooping.
Aching and stiffness in joints. Sciatica; pains shoot
down thigh; worse, right side; better, when perfectly
still. Felons m beginning, when pricking is first felt.
Nails brittie. Cramps in flexors of fingers and toes.

Modalities. — Worse, evening and night, lying down,
and doubling up. Better, standing erect, motion in
open air; pressure,

Relationship. — Antidotes: Chamom.; Camph,

Compare: Colocy. (differs in modalities); Nur;
Cham., Bry.

Dose. — Tincture, to third pctency.

-DIOSMA LINCARIS

(Buku — from Cape of Good Hope)

Pathogenically it produces: Somnolence; nervous
insomnia; night sweats. Erratic pains, with bad humor,
desire to weep or fear of sickness. Violent vertigo.
Cephalalgia, chiefly frontal, radiating to the occiput.
, Eyes brilliant, with lachrymation or itching, the con-
ditions accompanied by a species of stupefaction, with
hardness of hearing or noises from aural pressure.
Earthy face with disseminated rosaceous eruption.
Nausea, fetid breath, with sensation of emptiness. Sen-
sation of meteorism, with stinging pains in the spleen.
Painful sensation in the abdoinen, with pubic pressure
—the pressure of the clothing becomes unsupportable,
with emission of high-colored, bloody urine. Frequent
yellow diarrhoea, worse at night. Catamenia abundant,
anticipating, sometimes metrorrhagic in type; crampy
300 DIOSMA LIN, — DIPHTHERINUM — DOLICHOS

pains on ingesting food. Sensation of heat or of cold
in the hands, with convulsive movements of the fingers.
Weakness of the legs, aggravated by sitting down.

Clinically, this pathogeny should be useful in cere-
bral affections with dullness or stupefaction; in con-
vulsive or epileptiform attacks; in hysteria; in hepatitis
(cirrhosis or a trophy); in hematuria with ovarian or
uterine lesions.

In splenitis, where it should surpass Ceanothus.
Mental disorders in nervous or ascetic individuals, par-
ticularly where there is constant fear of death, or erotic
or maniac attacks. (astralyia. Gastroenteritis. Sud-
den fright, with trembling and weakness of the legs.
(Dr. C. Leal La Rota.)

DIPHTHERINUM
(Potentized Diphtheritic Virus)

Adapted to patients prone to catarrhal affections of
respiratory organs, scrofulous individuals. Diphtheria,
laryngeal diphtheria, post-diphtheritic paralysis. Ma-
lignancy from the start. Glands swollen; tongue red,
swollen; breath and discharge very offensive. Diph-
theritic membrane thick, dark. Epistaxis; profound
prostration. Swallows without pain, but fluids are
vomited or returned by the nose.

Relationship. — Compare: Diphtherotoxin (Cahis)
(Chronic bronchitis with rales. Cartier suggests it in
the vago-paralytic forms of Bronchitis of the aged
or in toxic bronchitis after grip.)

Dose. — Thirtieth, two-hundredth or C. M. potency.
Must not be repeated too frequently.

DOLICHOS PURIENS — MUCUNA
(Cowhage)

vf, right-sided medicine, with pronounced liver and
DOLICHOS PURIENS—DORYPHORA 301

skin symptoms. A general intense itching without
eruption, Exalted nervous sensibility. Senile pruritus.
Hemorrhoidal diathesis.

Throat.— Pain in throat, worse swallowing, below
right angle of jaw, as tf splinter were imbedded verti-
cally, Pain in gums prevents sleep.

Abdomen. — Colic from getting feet wet. Constipa-
tion, with intense itching; bloated abdomen. White
stools. Swelling of liver. Hemorrhoids, with burning
sensation.

Skin. — Intense itching, with no swelling or rash;
worse across shoulders, also about elbows and knees
and hairy parts. Jaundice. Yellow in spots; itching
excessively at night. Herpes zoster. [.4rs.]

Modalities. — IVorsc, at night, scratching, right side.

Relationship.— Compare: Rhus; Pell.; Hep.; Nit.
ac.; Fagopyr.

Dose.— Sixth potency. Tincture, drop doses, in
hemorrhoids,

DORYPHORA
(Colorado Potato-bug)

The center of this drug’s action seems to be in the
urinary organs, and hence its employment in gonor-
rhea and gleet. Urethritis in children from local
irritation and gleet. Great trembling in extremities.
Prostration. Swelling of body. Burning sensation.

Urinary. — Difficult micturition. Urethra inflamed,
with excruciating pain when urinating. Pain in back
and Joins. Severe trembling in limbs,

Relationship. — Antidote: Stram.

Compare: Agar.; Apis; Canth.; Lach.; Coccion.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.
302 DROSERA

DROSERA
(Sundew)

Affects markedly the respiratory organs and was
pointed out by Hahnemann as the principal remedy fo1
whooping-cough. Laryngeal phthisis is benefited by
it. Phthisis pulmonum; vomiting of food from cough
ing with gastric irritation and profuse expectoration
Pains about hip-joint. Tubercular glands.

Head. — Vertigo when walking in open air, with 1n-
clination to fall to the left side. Coldness of left half
of face, with stinging pains and dry heat of right
half.

Stomach. — Nausea. Aversion to and bad effects
from acids.

Respiratory Organs.—Spasmodic, dry irritative
cough, like whooping-cough, the parorysms following
each other very rapidly; can scarcely breathe; chokes.
Cough very deep and hoarse; worse, after midnight;
yellow expectoration, with blecding from nose and
mouth; retching. Deep, hoarse voice; hoarsencss;
laryngitis. Rough, scraping sensation deep in the
fauces and soft palate. Sensation as if crumbs were
in the throat, of feather in larynx. Laryngeal phthisis,
with rapid emaciation. Harassing and titillating cough
in children—not at all through the day, but com-
mences as soon as the head touches the pillow at night.
Cleseyman’s sgre throat, with rough, scraping, dry
sensation deep in the fauces; voice hoarse, deep, tone-
less, cracked, requires exertion to speak. Asthma when
talking, with contraction of the throat at every word
uttered. .

Extremities.— Paralytic pains in the coxo-femoral
joiait and thighs. Stiffness in joints of feet. All limbs
feet lame. Bed feels too hard.
DROSERA —- DUBOISIA 303

Fever. — Internal chilliness; shivering, with hot face,
cold hands, no thirst. Is always too cold, even in bed.

Modalities. — Worse, after midnight, lying down, on
getting warm in bed, drinking, singing, laughing.

Relationship. — Antidote. Camph.

Compare: Fluoroform 2 per cent. watery solution, 2-4
drops, after paroxysms, considered specific for whoop-
ing-cough. Chelid.; Corall.; Cupr.; Castanea; Argent.;
Menyanth.

Dose. — First to twelfth attenuation.

DUBOISIA
(Corkwood Elm)

Acts chiefly on the nervous system, eyes, upper res-
piratory tract. Recommended in pharyngitis sicca, with
black, stringy mucus. It dilates the pupil, dries the
mouth, checks perspiration, causes headache and drow-
siness. On the eye it acts more promptly than Atropia,
much stronger as a mydriatic. Red spot floats in the
field of vision. Sensation as if stepping on empty space.
Vertigo with pale face; not gastric in origin. Scarlet
fever ; locomotor ataxia.

Mind. — Absent-minded, incoherent, silly and non-
sensical, memory impaired.

Head. — Impossible to stand with eyes shut, ten-
dency to fall backwards.

Eyes. — Conjunctivitis, acute and chronic. Mydriasis.
Paralysis of accommodation. Hyperzmia of retina with
weakness of accommodation, fundus red, blood-vessels
full and tortuous; pupils dilated, with dim vision. Pain
over eye, between it and brow.

Respiratory. — Larynx dry, voice hoarse, phonation
difficult. Dry cough with oppressed breathing.
304 DUBOISIA — DULCAMARA

Extremities. — Loss of power in limbs, staggers;
feels as if he stepped on empty space. Trembling,
numbness and weakness,

Relationship. — Has been used as a substitute for
Atropia in doses of 1-80 to 1-20 of a grain hypoder-
mically. Antidotes: Morphia; Pilocarp. Compare:
Bellad.; Stram.; Hyos.

Dose. — Third to twelfth potency.

DULCAMARA
(Bitter-sweet)

Hot days and cold nights towards the close of sum-
mer are especially favorable to the action of Dulcamara,
and is one of the remedies that correspond in their
symptoms to the conditions found as effects of damp
weather, colds after exposure to wet, especially diar-
rhoea. It has a specific relation also to the stin, glands,
and digestive organs, mucous membranes secreting
more profusely while the skin is inactive. The rheu-
matic troubles induced by damp cold are aggra-
vated by every cold change and somewhat relieved by
moving about. Results from sitting on cold, damp
ground. One-sided spasms with speechlessness. Paraly-
sis of single parts. Congestive headache, with neural-
gia and dry nose. Patients living or working in damp,
cold basements. [Nat. sulph.] Eruptions on hands,
arms or face around the menstrual period.

Head. — Mental confusion. Occipital pain ascend-
ing from nape of neck. Headache relieved by conver -
sation. Rejects things asked for. Back part of head
chilly, heavy, aching, during cold weather. Ringworm
of scalp. Scaldhead, thick brown crusts, bleeding when
scratched. Buzzing in head.
DULCAMARA 305

Nose. — Dry coryza. Complete stoppage of nose.
Stuffs up when there is a cold rain. Thick, yellow
mucus, bloody crusts. Profuse coryza. Wants nose
kept warm, least cold air stops the nose. Coryza of
the new born.

Eyes. — Every time he takes cold it settles in eycs.
Thick, yellow discharge; granular lids. Hay-fever;
profuse, watery discharge, worse in open air.

Ears. — Earache, buzzing, stitches, and swelling of
parotids. Middle-ear catarrh [Merc. dulc.; Kal. mur.]

Face. — Tearing in cheek extending to ear, orbit,
and jaw, preceded by coldness of parts, and attended
by canine hunger, Humid eruption on cheeks and face
generally. ‘

Mouth — Saliva tenacious, soapy. Dry, rough
tongue, rough scraping in throat, after taking cold in
damp weather. Cold-sores on lips. Facial neuralgia;
worse, slightest exposure to cold.

Stomach. — Vomiting of white, tenacious mucus.
Aversion to food. Burning thirst for cold drinks.
Heartburn. Nausea accompanies the desire for stool.
Chilliness during vomiting.

Abdomen. -- Colic from cold. Acts prominently on
umbilical region. Cutting pain about navel. Swelling
of inguinal glands. [Merc.]

Stool. — Green, watery, slimy, bloody, mucus, espe-
cially in summer, when the’ weather suddenly becomes
cold; from damp, cold weather and repelled eruptions.

Urine. — Must urinate when getting chilled. Stran-
gury, painful micturition. Catarrh of bladder from
taking cold. Urine has thick, purulent sediment. Isch-
uria from wading with bare feet in cold water.

Female. — Suppression of menses from cold or
dampness. Before appearance of menses, a rash ap-
306 DULCAMARA

pears on skin, or sexual excitement. Dysmenorrhcea,
with blotches all over; mammz engorged and sore,
delicate, sensitive to cold. -

Respiratory.— Cough worse cold, wet weather,
with free expectoration, tickling in larynx. Cough,
hoarse, spasmodic. Whooping-cough, with excessive
secretion of mucus. Winter coughs, dry, teasing. Asth-
ma with dyspnoea. Loose, rattling cough; worse wet
weather. Must cough a long time to expel phlegm.

Back. — Stiff neck. Pain in small of back, as after
long stooping. Stiffness and lameness across neck and
shoulders, after getting cold and wet.

Extremities. — Paralysis: paralyzed limbs, fect icy
cold. Warts on hands. Perspiration on palms of
hands. Pain in shin-bones, Rheumatism alternates
with diarrhoea. Rheumatic symptoms after acute skin
eruptions.

Skin. — Adenilis. | Pruritus, always worse in cold,
wet weather. Herpes zoster, pemphigus. Swelling and
indurated glands from cold. Vesicular eruptions. Sen-
sitive bleeding ulcers. Little boils. Red spots, urticaria,
brought on by exposure, or sour stomach. Humid erup-
tions on face, genitals, hands, etc. Waris, large, smooth,
on face and palmar surface of hands. Anasarca. Thick,
brown-yellow crusts, bleeding when scratched.

Fever. — Dry burning heat all over. Chilliness to-
wards evening, mostly in back. Icy coldness, with pains.
Dry heat and burning of skin. Chilliness with thirst.

Modalities. — Worse, at night; from cold in general,
damp, rainy weather. Better, from moving about, ex-
ternal warmth.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Camph.; Cupr.

€omplementary: Baryta carb,
306 DULCAMARA

pears on skin, or sexual excitement. Dysmenorrhcea,
with blotches all over; mammz engorged and sore,
delicate, sensitive to cold. -

Respiratory.— Cough worse cold, wet weather,
with free expectoration, tickling in larynx. Cough,
hoarse, spasmodic. Whooping-cough, with excessive
secretion of mucus. Winter coughs, dry, teasing. Asth-
ma with dyspnoea. Loose, rattling cough; worse wet
weather. Must cough a long time to expel phlegm.

Back. — Stiff neck. Pain in small of back, as after
long stooping. Stiffness and lameness across neck and
shoulders, after getting cold and wet.

Extremities. — Paralysis: paralyzed limbs, fect icy
cold. Warts on hands. Perspiration on palms of
hands. Pain in shin-bones, Rheumatism alternates
with diarrhoea. Rheumatic symptoms after acute skin
eruptions.

Skin. — Adenilis. | Pruritus, always worse in cold,
wet weather. Herpes zoster, pemphigus. Swelling and
indurated glands from cold. Vesicular eruptions. Sen-
sitive bleeding ulcers. Little boils. Red spots, urticaria,
brought on by exposure, or sour stomach. Humid erup-
tions on face, genitals, hands, etc. Waris, large, smooth,
on face and palmar surface of hands. Anasarca. Thick,
brown-yellow crusts, bleeding when scratched.

Fever. — Dry burning heat all over. Chilliness to-
wards evening, mostly in back. Icy coldness, with pains.
Dry heat and burning of skin. Chilliness with thirst.

Modalities. — Worse, at night; from cold in general,
damp, rainy weather. Better, from moving about, ex-
ternal warmth.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Camph.; Cupr.

€omplementary: Baryta carb,
DULCAMARA — ECHINACEA 307

Incompatible: Bellad.; Laches.

Compare: Pimpinello (lumbago and stiff neck; pain
from nape to shoulder; chilliness). Rhus; Cimictf.;
Calc.; Puls.; Bry.; Nat, sulph.

Dose. — Second to thirtieth potency.

ECHINACEA
.(Purple Cone-flower)

Symptoms of blood poisoning, septic conditions gen-
erally. Diarrhoea in typhoid. Gonorrhea. Boils. Ery-
sipelas and foul ulcers. Gangrene. Goitre with exoph-
thalmic symptoms. Tendency to malignancy in acute
and subacute disorders. Last stages of cancer to ease
pain. Venom infection. Cerebrospinal meningitis.
Puerperal infections. Tired feeling. Piles. Pustules.
Acts om vermiform appendix thus has been used for
appendicitis, but remember it promotes suppuration and
a neglected appendicitis with pus formation would
probably rupture sooner under its use. Lymphatic in-
flammation; crushing injuries. Snake bites and bites
and stings gencrally. Foul discharges with emaciation
and great debility.

Head. — Confused, depressed. Aches with a peculiar
periodical flushing of the face, even to the neck; dizzi-
ness and profound prostration.

Nose. — Foul-smelling discharge, membraneous for-
mations protruding. Post-nasal catarrh with ulceration
and fetor. Nose feels stuffed up. Right nostril raw,
bleeding.

Mouth. — Canker; gums recede and bleed easily;
corners of mouth and lips crack; tongue dry and
swollen; sores; dirty brownish. Tongue, lips, and
fauces tingle, with sense of fear about heart. [Acon.]
White coating of tongue, with red edges. Promotes
the flow of saliva.
308 ECHINACEA — ELAPS CORALLINUS

Throat. — Tonsils purple or black, gray exudation
extending to posterior nares and air-passages. Ulcer-
ated sore throat.

Stomach. — Sour belching and heartburn. Nausea;
better lying down.

Chest.— Pain as of a lump in chest and under
sternum. Pain in pectoral muscles. [Aristolochia.]

Urine. — Albuminous, scanty, frequent, and invol-
untary.

Female.— Puerperal septicemia; discharges  sup-
pressed; abdomen sensitive and tympanitic.

Extremities. — Aching in limbs and general lassitude.

Skin. — Recurring boils. Carbuncles. —Irritations
from insect bites and poisonous plants. Lymphatics en-
larged. Old tibial ulcers.

Fever. — Chilliness, with nausea. Cold flashes all over
hack. Alalarial fever.

Relationship.-- Compare: Cenchris contortrix; Bo-
throps; Ars.; Laches.; Baptis.; Rhus; Cistus; Hepar;
Calenduia.

Dose.—- Tincture, one to five drops, every two
hours, and larger doses.

Locally, as a cleansing and antiseptic wash,

ELAPS CORALLINUS
(Coral-snake)

Similar to snake-poisons generally. Has very marked
black discharges. Cold things disagree. Desire for
sweetened buttermilk. Nausea and vomiting. Pros-
trating diarrhoea of consumption. Acidity of stomach,
with faint feeling. Sudden pain in stomach. Spasm of
cesophagus; pharynx constricted; food and liquids sud-
ELAPS CORALLINUS 309

denly arrested, and then fall heavily into stomach.
Spasms followed by paresis. Cold feeling in stomach.
Fruits and ice-water lie very cold. Right-sided paraly-
sis. Must have oscillatory motion. Rheumatic consti-
tutions.

Mind. — Depressed; imagines he hears someone
talking: dreads to be left alone. Fear of rain. Can
speak, but cannot understand speech.

Head. — Violent headache, extending from forchead
to occiput. Vertigo with tendency to fall forward.
Weight and pain in forehead.

Eyes. — Aversion to light; letters run together when
reading. Veil before eyes. Burning in lids. Bloated
around the eyes in the morning.

Ears. — Cerumen black and hard, with difficult hear-
ing, or serous greenish discharge, offensive; buzzing,
and illusion of hearing. Sudden attack of nightly deaf-
ness, with roaring and crackling in ears. Chronic otor-
rhea. Deufness, noises in ears, cracking in ears on
swallowing.

Nose. — Chronic nasal catarrh, with fetid odor and
greenish crusts. Ozexna; yellowish-green discharge.
Mucous membrane wrinkled; nostrils plugged up with
dry mucus. Pains from nose to ears on swallowing.
Nostrils stopped up. Nasal bleeding. Pain at root of
nose. Eruption about nose.

Throat. — Thick, very offensive, dry, greenish-yel-
low crusts upon the posterior pharyngeal wall and
extremely foul breath. Spasmodic contraction of
cesophagus. :

Chest. — Coldness in chest after drinking. Hamor-
rhage from lungs black as ink and watery; stitches in
apex of right lung. Fainting caused by stooping. Op-
pression in going upstairs. Peeling off of skin from
310 ELAPS CORALLINUS — ELATERIUM

palms and fingers. Cough, with terrible pain through
lungs. Worse right and expectoration of black blood.
Sensation of a sponge in cesophagus.

Stomach, — Feels cold. Sensation as if food turned
like a corkscrew on swallowing; desire for sweetened
buttermilk. Acidity after every mouthful.

Female. — Dysmenorrheea, with black blood. Dis-
charge of black blood between menses. Itching of vulva
and vagina.

Sleep. —- Dreams about dead persons.

Skin, — Glands and skin of axille affected; itching
with tetter. Tips of fingers peel off.

Extremities. — Icy cold feet. Vesicular eruptions on
feet. Arms and hands swollen bluish. Knee-joints
feel sprained. Pricking under the nails.

Fever.— Cold perspiration all over. Typhoid when
ulcers have eaten into tissues, and black blood is dis-
charged.

Relationship. — Compare: Kino — Eucalyptus rostrata
(offensive dark discharge from right ear); Crotalus;
Alumen; Carbo; Ars.; Lach.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

ELATERIUM
(Squirting Cucumber)

This is an invaluable remedy in violent vomiting and
purging, especially if the evacuations are copious and
watery. It is a very efficient remedy in certain forms
of dropsy. Much yawning and stretching. Beriberi;
choleraic conditions; urticaria and mental disorders
coming on as a consequence of suppressed malaria. Ir-
resistible desire to wander from home at night. Effects
of damp weather.
ELATERIUM — EPIGEA REPENS 311

Stomach, — Nausea and vomiting, with great weak-
ness. Griping pains in bowels.

Stool. — Watery, copious, forceful. Squirting diar-
rhea; frothy, olive ‘green, with cutting in abdomen.

Extremities. — Sharp pains in fingers and thumbs,
knees, toes, and instep. Gouty pain in great toes. Pain
extends down extremities; pain in hip-joints with diar-
rhea. Arthritic nodules.

Skin. — Smarts, stings, and burns, Dropsical. Urti-
caria from suppressed intermittent. Skin, orange color.

Fever. — Chill comes on with much yawning and
stretching, lasting all through chill. Pain in extremities,
darting into fingers and tues. Chills and fever, with
spurting diarrhcea.

Modalities. — Worse, from exposure on damp ground.

Relationship. — Compare: Bry.; Croton; Gambogia.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency. As a hydra-

gogue cathartic to produce free discharge in dropsies,
Elaterin 1-20 of a grain. Palliative only.

EPIGEA REPENS
(Trailing Arbutus)

Chronic cystitis, with ¢dysuria; tenesmus after mic-
turition; muco-pus and uric-acid deposit, gravel, renal
calculi, Fine sand in urine of a brown color. Burning
in neck of bladder whilst urinating and tenesmus after-
ward. Pyelitis, incontinence of urine.

Relationship.—- Compare: Uva; Chimaph.; Lyc.;
Pareira. Epigea contains Arbutin, also Formic acid.

Dose. — Tincture in 5-drop doses every three‘hours,
312 EP] PHEGUS—EQUISETUM

EPIPHEGUS — OROBANCHE
(Beechdrop)

A remedy for sick, neurasthenic, and nervous head-
aches, especially in women, brought on or made worse
by exertion, shopping, etc. Tongue coated yellow; bit-
ter taste. Drowsy after meals. Loose stools. Subin-
volution, with painful menstruation and congestion.

Head. — Pressing pain in temples from without in-
wards; worse, left side. Viscid salivation; constant in-
clination to spit. Sick headache coming on when devi-
ating from ordinary pursuits. Headaches from nerve
tire caused by mental or physical exhaustion, preceded
by jiunger.

Modalities. — TVorse, from working in open air.
Better, from sleep.

Relationship. — Compare: Jris; Melilot.; Sanguinar.
Fagus — Beech-nuts — (headache and salivation; swell-
ing of mouth; diead of water),

Dose. — First to thirtieth potency.

EQUISETUM
(Scouring-rush)

Principal action on the bladder. A remedy for
enuresis and dysuria.

Urinary. —- Severe, dull pain in bladder, not relieved
by urinating. Frequent urging with severe pain at the
close of urination. Urine flows only drop by drop.
Sharp, burning, cutting pain in urethra while urinating

Incontinence in children, with dreams or night-mares
when passing urine. Incontinence in old women, also
with involuntary stools. Retention and dysuria during
pregnancy and after delivery. Much mucus in urine.
Albuminuria Involuntary urination.
EQUISETUM — ERECHTITES — ERIGERON 313

Kidney. — Deep pain in region of right kidney, ex-
tending to lower abdomen, with urgent desire to mic-
turate. Right lumbar region painful.

Modalities. — lVorse, right side; movement, pressure,
touch, sitting down; better, in afternoon from lying
down.

Relationship. — Compare: Ferr. phos.; Apis; Canth.;
Linaria; Chimaph. Eyuisitum contains silica.

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth potency.

ERECHTITES
(Fire-weed)

A hemorrhagic remedy. Epistaxis of bright blood.
Hemorrhage from any part, especially lungs; always
attended by excitement of the circulation. Flashes of
heat and coldness,

Skin. — Symptoms like Rhus poisoning.

Relationship.— Compare: Erig.; Millef.; Haman.;
Rhus.

Dose.— Tincture. Lotally for Poison Oak,

ERIGERON— LEPTILON CANADENSE
(Fleabane)

Hemorrhages are caused and cured by this remedy.
Persistent hemorrhage from the bladder. Hamorrhage
from the uterus, with painful micturition. Profuse
bright-red blood. Pain in left ovary and hip. Chronic
gonorrhea, with burning micturition; continual drib-
bling. Dysentery, with soreness and burning in blad-
der. Tympanites,
314 ERIGERON — ERIODYCTION

Female. — Mctorrhagia, with violent irritation of
rectum and bladder, and prolapsus uteri. Bright-red
flow. Menorrhagia; profuse leucorrhaea; bloody lochia
returns after least motion, comes in gushes; between
periods, leucorrhea with urinary irritation; pregnant
women with “weak uterus;” a bloody discharge on
slight exertion. Bleeding hemorrhoids; nosebleed in-
stead of menses. [Bry.]

Modalities. — Worse, left side.

Relationship. — Terebinthina similar.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency. Oil of Erigeron
Ix internally for tympanites. An enema of one dram
of the oil with the yolk of an egg and pint of milk
will reduce the most enormous tympanites.

ERIODYCTION
(Yerba Santa)

A remedy for asthmatic and bronchial affections.
Bronchial phthisis, with night-sweats and emaciation.
Asthma relieved by expectoration. Cough after influ-
ensa. Furthers reabsorption of effusion in plural cavity.

Head. — Dizzy, feels intoxicated. Pressure out-
wards; worse, occiput. Pain in ears. Coryza. Burning
in throat. Foul mouth in morning. Coryza with dizzi-
ness and sneezing.

Respiratory. — Wheezing; asthma, with coryza and
mucous secretions. Dull pain in right lung. Burning
in fauces,

Male. — Sorc, dragging in testicle, could not bear
any pressure; better gentle support.

Relationship. —--Compare: Grind.; Aral.; Eucalyp.;
Tpec.

Dose. — Tincture and first attenuation.
ERYNGIUM AQUATICUM —EUCALYPTUS GLOB, 315

ERYNGIUM AQUATICUM
(Button Snake-root)

A remedy for urinary disorders. Stranguary, etc.,
with nervous erethism. Thick, yellow mucous dis-
charges. Influenza. Uridrosis, sweat of urinous odor
in evening.

Respiratory. -— Cough, with sense of constriction.
Smarting in throat and larynx.

Urinary. —- Tenesmus of bladder and urethra. Diffi-
cult and frequent micturition. Pain behind pubes.
Spasmodic stricture. Renal colic. [Pareira, Calc.}
Congestion of kidneys with dull pain in back, running
down the ureters and limbs. Irritable bladder from
enlarged prostate gland, or from pressure of uterus.

Male. — Discharge of prostatic fluid from slight
causes, Seminal emissions without erections, with las-
situde. [Dioscor.; Phos. ac.]

Relationship. — Compare: Conium; Cannab.; Dios.;
Ocim.; Ciemat.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

EUCALYPTUS GLOBULUS
(Blue Gum-tree)

A remedy with marked effects on catarrhal processes,
malaria, and intestinal disturbance. Influense. Fevers
of a relapsing character. Produces diuresis and great
increase of urea. Hzmorrhages internally and locally.
[Hamam.] Typhoid. Symptoms of exhaustion and
toxemia. Conditions of the mucous surfaces of the air
passages, genito-urinary organs and gastro-intestinal
tract. A gastro-intestinal irritant with pain iri stomach
and upper intestines severa! hours after eating.
316 EUCALYPTUS GLOBULUS

Head — Exhilaration. Desire for exercise. Dull
congestive headache. Coryjsa; sore throat. Eyes smart
and burn.

Nose. — Siuffed-up sensation; thin, watery coryza;
tightness across bridge. Chronic catarrhal, purulent and
fetid discharge. Ethmoid and frontal sinus involved.

Throat. — Relaxed, aphthous condition of mouth
and throat. Excessive secretion of saliva. Burns, feels
full. Constant sensation of phlegm in throat Enlarged,
ulcerated tonsils and inflamed throat. (Use tincture
locally.)

Stomach. — Slow digestion. Much fetid gas. Beating
and goneness with pulsation in epigastric arteries.
Spleen hard and contracted.

Abdomen. — Acute diarrhaa. Aching pains in bowels
with feeling of impending diarrhea. Dysentery, with
rectal heat; tenesmus; hemorrhage. Diarrhoea; stools
thin, watery, preceded by sharp pains. Typhoid diar-
rhea, .

Urinary. — Acuic nephritis complicating influensa.
Hematuria. Suppurative inflammation of kidneys.
Urine contains pus and is deficient in urea. Bladder
feels loss of expulsive force. Burning and tenesmus;
catarrh of bladder, diuresis; urethral caruncle.

Respiratory. — Asthma, with great dyspnea and pal-
pitation. Moist asthma. Expectoration white, thick
mucus. Bronchitis in the aged. Bronchorrhea. [Bals.
Peru.} Profuse expectoration of offensive muco-pus.
Irritative cough. Whooping-cough in rachitic children.
Fetid form of bronchitis, bronchial dilatation and emi-
physema.

Female. — Leucorrheea, acrid, fetid. Ulcer around
orifice of urethra.

Extremities.—- Rheumatic pains; worse at night,
walking or carrying anything. Stiff, weary sensation.
316 EUCALYPTUS GLOBULUS

Head — Exhilaration. Desire for exercise. Dull
congestive headache. Coryjsa; sore throat. Eyes smart
and burn.

Nose. — Siuffed-up sensation; thin, watery coryza;
tightness across bridge. Chronic catarrhal, purulent and
fetid discharge. Ethmoid and frontal sinus involved.

Throat. — Relaxed, aphthous condition of mouth
and throat. Excessive secretion of saliva. Burns, feels
full. Constant sensation of phlegm in throat Enlarged,
ulcerated tonsils and inflamed throat. (Use tincture
locally.)

Stomach. — Slow digestion. Much fetid gas. Beating
and goneness with pulsation in epigastric arteries.
Spleen hard and contracted.

Abdomen. — Acute diarrhaa. Aching pains in bowels
with feeling of impending diarrhea. Dysentery, with
rectal heat; tenesmus; hemorrhage. Diarrhoea; stools
thin, watery, preceded by sharp pains. Typhoid diar-
rhea, .

Urinary. — Acuic nephritis complicating influensa.
Hematuria. Suppurative inflammation of kidneys.
Urine contains pus and is deficient in urea. Bladder
feels loss of expulsive force. Burning and tenesmus;
catarrh of bladder, diuresis; urethral caruncle.

Respiratory. — Asthma, with great dyspnea and pal-
pitation. Moist asthma. Expectoration white, thick
mucus. Bronchitis in the aged. Bronchorrhea. [Bals.
Peru.} Profuse expectoration of offensive muco-pus.
Irritative cough. Whooping-cough in rachitic children.
Fetid form of bronchitis, bronchial dilatation and emi-
physema.

Female. — Leucorrheea, acrid, fetid. Ulcer around
orifice of urethra.

Extremities.—- Rheumatic pains; worse at night,
walking or carrying anything. Stiff, weary sensation.
EUCALYPTUS GLOBULUS -—EUGENIA JAMBOS 317

Pricking sensation, followed by painful aching. Nodu-
lar swellings over metacarpai and metatarsal joints.

Skin. — Glandular enlargetnents and nodular swell-
ing over joints. Foul and indolent ulcers. Herpetic
eruptions.

Fever. — Elevation of temperature. Continued and
typhord fevers. Scarlet fever (protective and curative.)
Discharges show a tendency to foulness, high tempera-
ture, accelerated Lut not strong pulse. Use the tincture.

Relationship. —-Compare: /iucalypitus  tereticoris
(menstrual cough and prostration). Lucalypiol (de-
presses temperature of healthy body mure than Quinine ;
acts on kidneys like Tercbinth.) ; Ilydrast.; Kali sulph.
Eucalyptus neutralizes ill effects of Sirychnin. Ango-
phora — Red Gum — (dysentery, pains, tenesmus; bet-
ter lying flat on face; obstinate constipation). Eucalyp-
tus rostrata — Kino.

Dose. — Tincture, and lower potencies. Also Oil of
Eucalyptus in five-drop doses. The volatile oil pos-
sesses, in common with other terpenes, the property of
converting water, in presence of air and sunlight, into
hydrogen peroxide, or to convert oxygen into ozone,
which is the explanation usually given of its deodoriz-
ing and antiseptic properties. (Merrell.) Locally, in
catarrhal affections, especially when of a suppurating
or putrid nature. In cough, give tincture in syrup of
Tolu.

EUGENIA JAMBOS — JAMBOSA VULGARIS
(Rose-apple)

Eugenia produces a state of intoxication like alcohol.
Everything appears beautiful and larger; excitement
soon changing to depression. Acne, simple and indu-
rated. The pimples are painful for some distance
318 EUGENIA JAMBUS—ELVONYMUS ATROPURPUREA

around. Acne rosacea. Nausea; bettcr smoking.
Comedones.

Head. — Headache as if a board were lying on
right side. Talkative. Hot lachrymation.

Extremities.— Nightly cramp in soles of feet.
[Cupr.; Zing.) Skin cracks about toes. Fissures be-
tween toes. Skin recedes from the nails, forming pus.

Relationship. — Compare: Eugenia chekun —
Myrtus chekan (chronic Bronchitis); Antim.; Berb.
aquif.

EUONYMUS ATROPURPUREA
(Wahoo. Burning Bush)

Brunettes more easily affected, producing headache,
mental disturbances and much distress in hepatic and
renal region; albuminuria. Migraine. Passive Conges-
tion and torpor of liver — chronic catarrhal affections
of stomach and intestines, — Weak heart.

Mind. — Mental! confusion, despondent, irritable; loss
of memory, unable to recall familiar names,

Head.— Heavy frontal headache. Sore, tired feel-
ing; bruised feeling of scalp. Pain over right eye ex-
tending back through the head. Bilious headache;
coated tongue, bad taste, constipation. Vertigo, obscure
vision and gastric derangement, associated with albu-
minuria,

Stomach. — Mouth dry, pasty taste; thirsty, stomach
full and uncomfortable.

Abdomen. — Flatus and pain. Anus very sore and
burning. Constipation with hemorrhoids and severe
backache. Diarrhea; stools variable and profuse,
bloody. Fain about umbilical region.

Usinary.— Urine scanty, high-cclored; acidity in-
cggased, poured out rapidly.
EUONYMUS ATROP, — EUPAT. AROMI — EUPAT, PER. 319

Back. — Dull pain between shoulders and about renal
and splenic region; pain in lumbar region better lying
down.

Extremities. — Aching in all joints, especially ankles.
Feet feel swollen and tired.

Modalities. — Better cool draught, pressure. Worse
evening.

Relationship, -—— Exuonymus Luropea — Spindle-trec
(Liver disorders, biliousness, lumbago, gastric derange-
ments with albuminuria, Cutting pains in malar bones,
tongue, penis up to bladder); Podophyl; .fmmon. pic.;:
Chel.; Euonymin ix trit. (albuminuria).

Dose. — Tincture and lower attenuations.

EUPATORIUM AROMATICUM
(Pool-root)

Nervous erethism; restlessness and morbid watchful-
ness. Hysteria and chorea. Low fevers, with extreme
restlessness. Aphthous disease. Sore nipples. Sore
mouth in infants. Vomiting of bile, pain in stomach,
headache, and fever.

Relationship. — IJ yosc.; Passiflor.; Ifydr. mur.

Dose. — Tincture, locally, in sore mouth and sore nip-
ples. Internally, tincture to third attenuation.

EUPATORIUM PERFOLIATUM
(Thoroughwort)

Known as “Bone-set,” from the prompt manner in
which it relieves pain in limbs and muscles that accom-
panies some forms of febrile disease, like malaria and
influenza. Eupatorium acts principally upon the gastro-
hepatic organs and bronchial mucous membrane. It is a
boon in miasmatic districts, along rivers, marshes, etc.,
and in all conditions where there is a great deal of
320 EUPATORIUM PERFOLIATUM

bone-pain. Cachexia from old chronic, bilious inter-
mittents. Worn-out constitutions from inebrity. Slug-
gishness of all organs and functions. Bone-pains, gen-
eral and severe. Soreness. Marked periodicity. [Ars.;
China; Cedron.]

Head. — Throbbing pain. Pressure as if a cap of lead
pressed over the whole skull. Vertigo; sensation of
falling to left. Vomiting of bile. Top and back of
head with pain and soreness of cycballs. Periodical
headache, every third and seventh day. Occipital pain
after lying dowm, with sense of weight.

Mouth. — Cracks in corners of mouth, yellow coated
tongue, thirst.

Stomach.— Tongue yellow. Taste bitter. Hepatic
region sore. Great thirst. Vomiting and purging of
bile, of green liquid several quarts at a time. Vomiting
preceded by thirst. Hiccough. | Sulph. ac., Ilydrocy.
ac.] Avoids tight clothing.

Stool. — Frequent, green, watery. Cramps. Consti-
pated, with sore liver.

Respiratory. — Coryza, with sneezing. Jfoarseness
and cough, with soreness in chest; must support it. Jn-
fluensa, with great soreness of muscles and bones.
Chronic loose cough, chest sore; worse at night. Cough
relieved by getting on hands and knees,

Fever, — Perspiration relieves all symptoms except
headache. Chill between 7 and 9 a. M., preceded by
thirst with great soreness and aching of bones, Nausea,
vomiting of bile at close of chill or hot stage; throbbing
headache. Knows chill is coming on because he cannot
drink enough.

Extremities. — Aching pain m back. Aching in bones
of extremities with sorencss of fiesh. Aching in arms
and wrists. Swelling of left great toe. Gouty soreness
EUPATORIUM PERFOLIATUM —EUPATORIUM PURP. 321

and inflammed nodosities of joints, associated with head-
ache. Dropsical swelling.

Modalities. — Worse, periodically. Better, by conver-
sation, by getting on hands and knees.

Relationship. — Compare: Bryon.; Scpia.; Natr. mur.;
Chelidon. Nyctanthes arbor-tristis (bilious fever; in-
satiable thirst; bitter vomiting at close of chill; also
constipation of children). [Collinson.]

Dose. — Tincture, to third attenuation.

EUPATORIUM PURPUREUM
(Queen of the Meadow)

Albuminuria, diabetes, strangury, irritable bladder, en-
larged prostate are a special field for this remedy. Ex-
cellent in renal dropsy. Chills and pains run upwards.
Impotency and sterility. Homesickness.

Head. — Left-sided headache with vertigo. Pain from
left shoulder to occiput. Sick headache beginning in
morning, worse afternoon and evening, worse in cold
air.

Urinary. — Deep, dull pain in kidneys. Burning in
bladder and urethra on urinating. Insufficient flow;
milky. Strangury. Hzmaturia. Constant desire; blad-
der feels dull. Dysuria. Vesical irritability in women.
Diabetes insipidus.

Back. — Weight and heaviness in loins and back.

Female. — Pain around left ovary. Threatened abor-
tion. External genitals feel as though wet.

Fever.— No thirst during chill, but much frontal
ache. Chill commences in back. Violent shaking, with
comparatively little coldness. Bone-pains.

Relationship. — Compare: Senecio; Cannab.  sat.,;.
Helon.; Phos. ac.; Triticum; Epigea.

Dose. — First potency.
322 EUPHORBIA LATHYRIS

EUPHORBIA LATHYRIS
(Gopher-Plant)

The symptoms point to its use in erysipelas, Poison-
oak, whooping-cough. Rheumatic pains during rest.
Paralytic weakness in joints,

Mind. — Delirium and hallucinations. Stupor, coma.

Eyes. — Almost closed from adema of lids.

Nose. — End of nose very much inflamed externally.
Very sensitive and @demutous mucous membranes with
ulceration.

Face. — At first ruddy glow on cheeks, afterwards
death-like pallor. Cold perspiration in beads on fore-
head. Red, puffed, and in spots suppuratmg. Ery-
thema, beginning on face, gradually extending into the
hairy parts, and then spreading over whole body, tak-
ing cight days to do so; eruption glossy, rough, cedema-
tous, with burning and smarting; aggravated by touch
and cold air; ameliorated by close room and sweet-oil
applications. Fine bran-like desquamation. Sensation
of cobwebs. Stinging, smarting, and burning of face
when touched.

Mouth. — Tongue coated, slimy; acrid taste. Breath
cold, musty odor.

Stomach.-- Nausca and vomiting of copious clear
water, intermingled with white, gelatinous lumps.

Stool. — Drastic purgation from large doses; mild
laxative condition from smaller doses; followed sev-
eral weeks afterwards by obstinate constipation. Stools
of white, transparent, gelatinous mucus; later mingled
with blood.

Urine. —- Copious flow of urine.

Male. — Infiammation of scrotum, resulting in deep
acrid ulcers, with intense itching and burning; worse,
touching the parts from washing.
EUPIIORBIA LATHYRIS — EUPHORRIUM 323

Respiratory.— Labored breathing. Breath cold,
musty odor. Cough; first, a hacking, as from inhala-
tion of sulphur; later on, paroxysmal, like whooping-
cough, in regular paroxysms, ending in diarrhoea and
vomiting, with sleepiness between each paroxysm.

Heart.— Weak and fluttering heart-action. Pulse
120, full, bounding, somewhat irregular.

Sleep. — Restlessness at night. Sleep disturbed, anx-
ious dreams.

Fever. — Temperature increased. Body bathed in
profuse perspiration, standing out like beads on fore-
head; later, coid, clammy perspiration on forehead.

Skin. — Erythema, beginning on uncovered parts, on
face, and spreading over whole body: glossy, rough,
cedematous, with burning and smarting. Fine bran-like
desquamation following in the wake of the erythema.
Eruption rough, scaly, smarting, and burning; when
scratched forms deep, ragged ulcers: skin where ulcer-
ated remains red.

Modalities. — ]orsce, touch and cold air; better, close
room and sweet-oil application.

Relationship. — Antidoted by Rhus tox, (skin symp-
toms); V’eratr. alb. (vomiting, purging, cough and

coma).
Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.
EUPHORBIUM
(Spurge —- The Resinous Juice of Euphorbia Resini-
fera)

An irritant to the skin and mucous membranes.
Burning pain in bones. Pains in limbs and paralytic
weakness in the joints. Important respiratory and skin
symptoms. Terrible burning pains. Pains of cancer.
Everything appears larger than it really is.
324 . EUPHORBIUM

Head. — Acute mania. Violent, pressive headache.

Face.—Erysipelas; yellow blisters. Burning in
cheek ; worse, left. Eyes inflammed and agglutinated in
morning. Red swelling of cheeks. Nasal pruritus with
mucous secretions from naso-pharynx.

Stomach, — Great hunger. Sialorrhcea (profuse salty
saliva). Waterbrash. Thirst for cold drinks.

Abdomen. — Sunken; spasmodic, flatulent colic.
Stools fermented, profuse, clayey. Feels hollow.

Respiratory. — Breathing oppressed, as if chest were
not wide enough. Spasmodic, dry cough, day and night,
with asthma. Violent, fluent coryza, with burning and
cough. Constant cough, with stitches from pit of
stomach to sides of chest. Croup, dry, hollow, cough.
Warm feeling in chest. as if hot food had been swal-
lowed.

Extremities. —- Paralytic pains. Pain in hip-joint and
coccyx.

Skin. — Erysipelatous inflammation, especially of the
cheek. Biting and stinging, red, swollen. Vesicular
erysipelas. Carbuncle; old, torpid. indolent ulcers with
biting, lancinating pain. Old torpid ulcer, pustules;
gangrene, [Echinac.; Secale.)  Ulcerating carcinoma
and epithelioma of the skin.

Relationship. — Compare: Euphorbia amygdaloides —
Wood Spurge (in pain in antrum, illusion of smell,
odor of mice. Sense of taste blunted. Diarrhcea; stools
difficult, with painful anal spasm).

Euphorbia corollata— Large Flowering Spurge (in
gastro-enteric disturbance, with deathly nausea. Vomit-
ing of food, water, and mucus, and copious evacuations.
Attacks recur after short intermissions. Feeling of
clawing in stomach; cold sweat). (Verat. alb.)
EUPHORBIU M -—~ EUPHRASIA 325

Euphorbia Cyparissias— (Intense action on skin;
burning and itching with sensation of chilliness. Mere
contact with the leaves produces these symptoms.)

Euphorbia heterodoxa — Alvcloz (alleviates the burn-
ing pains of cancer).

Euphorbia pilulifera — Pillbearing Spurge — (Humid
asthma, cardiac dyspnoea, hay-fever, and_ bronchitis.
Urethritis, with intense pain on urinating, and much
urging. <Acrid leucorrhea; worse least moveinent.
Hemorrhages from sunstroke and traumatism).

Compare, also: Psoralea— A Columbian plant —
(Pain of cancer, ulcers. Leucorrhcea fetid. Pruritus.
Uterine tumors.) Croton; Jatropha; Colchic.

Antidotes: Camph.; Opium.

Dose. --- Third to sixth potency.

EUPHRASIA .
(Eyebright)

Manifests itself in inflaming the conjunctival mem-
brane especially, producing profuse lachrymation. Pa-
tient is better in open air. Catarrhal affections of
mucous membranes especially of eyes and nose. Pro-
fuse acrid lachrymation and bland coryza; worse. even-
ing. Indolent and hypochondriacal.

Head. — Bursting headache with dazzling of eyes.
Catarrhal headache, with profuse discharge from eyes
and nose. .

Nose. — Profuse, fluent corysa, with violent cough
and abundant expectoration.

Eyes. — Catarrhal conjunctivitis; discharge of acrid
matter. The eyes water all the time. Acrid lachryma-
tion: bland coryza. [Opposite: Cepa.] Discharge thick
and excoriating. [Mercur. thin and acrid.] Burning
and swelling of the lids. Frequent inclination to blink.
Free discharge of acrid matter. Sticky mucus on cor-
326 EUPHRASIA

nea; must wink to remove it. Pressure in eyes. Little
blisters on cornea. Opacities. Rheumatic iritis. Ptosis.
[Gels.; Caust.] ;

Face.— Redness and heat of cheeks. Stiffuess of
upper lip.

Stomach. — Vomiting from hawking mucus. Nausea
and bitterness after smoking.

Rectum. — Dysentery. Prolapse ani. Pressure down
in anus when sitting. Constipation.

Female. — Menses painful; flow lasts only an hour or
day; late, scanty, short. Amenorrhea, with ophthalmia.

Male. — Spasmodic retraction of genitals, with pres-
sure ahove pubic bone. Condyloma and sycotic ex-
crescences. Prostatitis. Nocturnal irritability of blad-
der; dribbling urine.

Respiratory. — Frequent yawning when walking in
open air. Profuse, fluent coryza in morning, with much
cough and expectoration. Influenza. Gags when clear-
ing the throat in morning. Whooping-cough only in
day-time, with profuse lachrymmation.

Skin. -— First stage of measles; eye symptoms marked.
Consequence of external injuries.

Sleep. — Yawning when walking in open air. Sleepy
during day.

Fever. — Chilly and cold. Sweat mostly on chest, at
night during sleep.

Modalities. — Worse, in evening, indoors, warmth;
south winds; from light. Better, from coffee, in dark.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Camph.; Puls. Compare:
Hydrophyllum — Burr-flower — (catarrhal inflamma-
tion of cyes; hot lachrymation with itching, swollen lids,
dull headache; also for effects of Poison-Oak) ; Cepa;
Ars.,; Gels.: Kali hyd.; Sabaddla.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency,
326 EUPHRASIA

nea; must wink to remove it. Pressure in eyes. Little
blisters on cornea. Opacities. Rheumatic iritis. Ptosis.
[Gels.; Caust.] ;

Face.— Redness and heat of cheeks. Stiffuess of
upper lip.

Stomach. — Vomiting from hawking mucus. Nausea
and bitterness after smoking.

Rectum. — Dysentery. Prolapse ani. Pressure down
in anus when sitting. Constipation.

Female. — Menses painful; flow lasts only an hour or
day; late, scanty, short. Amenorrhea, with ophthalmia.

Male. — Spasmodic retraction of genitals, with pres-
sure ahove pubic bone. Condyloma and sycotic ex-
crescences. Prostatitis. Nocturnal irritability of blad-
der; dribbling urine.

Respiratory. — Frequent yawning when walking in
open air. Profuse, fluent coryza in morning, with much
cough and expectoration. Influenza. Gags when clear-
ing the throat in morning. Whooping-cough only in
day-time, with profuse lachrymmation.

Skin. -— First stage of measles; eye symptoms marked.
Consequence of external injuries.

Sleep. — Yawning when walking in open air. Sleepy
during day.

Fever. — Chilly and cold. Sweat mostly on chest, at
night during sleep.

Modalities. — Worse, in evening, indoors, warmth;
south winds; from light. Better, from coffee, in dark.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Camph.; Puls. Compare:
Hydrophyllum — Burr-flower — (catarrhal inflamma-
tion of cyes; hot lachrymation with itching, swollen lids,
dull headache; also for effects of Poison-Oak) ; Cepa;
Ars.,; Gels.: Kali hyd.; Sabaddla.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency,
EUPION — FAGOPYRUM 327

EUPION
(Wood-tar distillation)

Marked female symptoms, and backache. A remedy
far uterine displacements. Pain in back, followed by a
lland leucorrhea. Menses too early and copious; flow
thin. Intense sweat from slightest exertion. Disgust-
ing dreams. Sensation as if whole body were made ot
jelly.

Head. — Vertigo; everything turns round on sitting
up in bed. Heat at vertex; stitches from vertex down
limbs into abdomen and genitals. Sore painful spots
on head. Painful pulsation in forehead.

Female. — Burning in right ovary. Gushing leucor-
rhea. Chronic tubal disease. Uterine flexions. Menses
too carly and copious. During menses, irritable and dis-
inclined to talk; burning and stitches in chest and heart.
After menses, yeilow leucorrhas, with scvere backache.
When pain in back ceases, the discharge gushes out.
Sore pain between labia during urination. Pruritus pu-
dendi; labia swollen.

Extremities. —- Cramps in the calves; worse at night.

Back. — Sacrum pains, as if broken. Severe back-
ache; must lean against something for support. Pains
extended into pelvis.

Relationship. — Kreosot.; Graph.; Lach.

Dose. — Third potency.

FAGOPYRUM
(Buckwheat)

Its action on the skin, producing pruritus, is very
marked. Visible pulsation of arteries. Fluent coryza.
Offensive excretions. Itching erythema. Pruritus se-
nilis. Post-nasal catarrh; dry crusts, granular appear-
ance of posterior narcs with itching.
328 FAGOPYRUM

Head. — Inability to study or remember. Depressed
and irritable. Itching of eyes and ears. Pains deep in
head, with upward pressure. Itching in and around
eyes and ears. Head hot, better bending backward, with
tired neck. Occipital headache. Bursting pains.

Nose. — Sore, red, inflammed. Fluent coryza, with
sneezing, followed by dryness and crust formation.

Eyes. — Jiching and smarting, swelling, heat and sore-
ness.

Throat. — Soreness and feeling of excoriation, deep
down pharynx. Uvula elongated, tonsils swollen.

Stomach. — Eructations of scalding, hot, acid, watery
substance; better, coffee. Bad taste in the morning.
Persistent, morning nausea. Drooling. -

Heart. — Pain around heart, better lying on back, ex-
tending to left shuuldcr and arm. Throbbing in all ar-
teries after retiiing. Palpitation with oppression. Pulse
irregular, intermittent, rapid. Light feeling in chest.

Female. — Pruritus vulva, with yellow leucorrhaa,
worse, rest. Burning in right ovary.

Extremities. — Stiffness and lruised sensation in the
muscles of the ueck, with sensation as if nape of neck
could not support head. Pain in shoulder, with pain
along fingers. Vehement itching in arms and legs;
worse towards evening.’ Feet numb and _ pricking.
Streaking pains in arms and legs.

Skin. — /tchiny; worse scratching, touch and retiring.
Sore red blotches. Blind boils. Itching of knees and
elbows and hairy portions. Jiching of hands, deep in.
Vesicular, pustular, phlegmonous dermatitis. Skin hot,.
swollen.
FAGOPYRUM — FEL TAURI —FERRUM IODATUM 329

Modalities. — Better, cold water, coffee; worse, in

afternoon; from sunlight, scratching.
Relationship. — Compare: Dolichos; Bovista; Urtica.
Dose. — Third potency and 12x.

FEL TAURI
(Ox-gall)

Disordered digestion, diarrhoea, and pain in nape of
neck are among its chief symptoms. Obstruction of gall
ducts. Biliary calculi.

Stomach. — Eructations, gurgling in stomach and
episgastric region. Violent peristaltic movements.
Tendency to slecp after cating.

Relationship. — Compare: Merc. dulc.; Cholestertn.
In Biliary Lithiasis, China.

Dose. — Lower triturations.

FERRUM IODATUM
(Iodide of Iron)

Scrofulous affections, glandular enlargements, and
tumors call for this remedy. Crops of boils. Acute
nephritis following eruptive diseases. Uterine displace-
ments.

Stomach. — Food seems to push up into throat, as if
it had not been swallowed. -

Abdomen. — Fullness, even after a little food; stuffed
feeling, as if she could not lean forward.

Throat. — Sore, as if of a splinter, shooting in differ-
ent directions.

Respiratory. — Coryza; discharge of mucus from
nose, trachea, and larynx Pressure beneath sternum.
Scrofulous swelling of nose. Chest feels oppressed.
Heemoptysis.
330 FERRUM 10ODATUM—FERRUM MAGNETICUM

Urinary.— Urine dark. Sweet smelling. Crawling
sensation in urethra and rectum. Sensation as if urine
were stopped at fossa navicularis. Difficulty in retain-
ing urine.

Female. — On sitting, feeling as if something pressed
upward in vagina. Much bearing down. Retroversion
and prolapse of uterus. Leucorrhcea like boiled starch.
Menses suppressed. Itching and soreness of vulva and
vagina.

Dose. — Third trituration.

FERRUM MAGNETICUM
(Loadstone)

Marked symptoms in intestinal tract. Paralytic
weakness. Small warts ou hands, .

Stomach. — During a meal, flatulence; afterwards las-
situde taciturn and hot, pain in epigastrium, especially
on breathing.

Abdomen. —- Movements and grumbling in alidomen.
Loose evacuations with much flatulency, especially Jeft
side with pullings in legs. Abundant and frequent
emission of fetid flatus.

Dose. — Third potency.

FERRUM METALLICUM
(Iron)

Best adapted to young weakly persons, anemic and
chlorotic, with pseudo-plethora, who flush easily : cold
extremities; oversensitivencss; worse after any active
effort. IWVcakness from mere speaking or walking
though looking strong. Pallor of skin, mucous mem-
branes, face, alternating with flushes. Orgasms of blood
to face, chest, head, lungs, etc. Muscles flabby and
relaxed.
FERRUM METALLICUM 331

Mind. — Irritability. Slight noises unbearing. Ex-
cited from slightest opposition. Sanguine temperament.

Head. — Vertigo on seeing flowing water. Stinging
headache. Ringing in ears before menses. [/ammering,
pulsating, congestive headache; pain extends to teeth,
with cold extremities. Pain in back of head, with roar-
ing in neck.

Eyes. — Watery, dull red; photophobia; letters run
together.

Face. — Fiery-red and flushed from least pain, emo-
tion, or cxertion. Red parts become white, \loodless
and puffy.

Nose. — Mucous membrane relaxed, boggy, anemic,
pale.

Mouth. — Pain in tecth; relieved by ice-cald water.
Earthy, pasty taste, like rotten eggs.

Stomach. — Voracious appetite, or absolute loss of
appetite. Loathing of sour things. Attempts to eat
bring on diarrhea Spits up food by the mouthful.
[Phos.] Eructations of food after eating, without nau-
sea. Nausea and vomiting after eating. Vomiting im-
mediately aftcr eating. Vomiting after midnight. In-
tolerance of eqgs. Distention and pressure in the stom-
ach after eating. Heat and burning in stomach.
Soreness of abdominal walls. Flatulent dyspepsia.
[Carbo; Arg. nit.]

Stool. — Undigested, at night, while eating or drink-
mg, painless. Ineffectual urging; stool hard, followed
hy backache or cramping pain im rectum; prolapsus
recti; itching of anus, especially young children.

Urine. — Involuntary; worse daytime. Tickling in
urethra extending to bladder,

Female. — Menses remit a day or two, and then re-
turn. Discharge of long pieces from uterus. Women
who are weak, delicatc, chlorotic, yet have a fiery-red
332 FERRUM METALLICUM

face. Menses too early, too profuse, last too long; pale,
watery. Sensitive vagina. Tendency to abortion. Pro-
lapse of vagina.

Respiratory.— Chest oppressed; breathing difficult.
Surging of blood to chest. Hoarseness. Cough dry,
spasmodic. Hzmoptysis. [Millefol.] With the cough
pain in occiput.

Heart. — Palpitation; worse, movement. Sense of op-
pression. Anemic murmur. Pulse full, but soft and
yielding; also, small and weak. Heart suddenly bleeds
into the blood vessels, and as suddenly draws a reflux,
leaving pallor of surface.

Extremities. — Rheumatism of the shoulder. Dropsy
after loss of vital fluids. Jumbago; better, slow walk-
ing. Pain in hip-joint, tibia, soles, and heel.

Skin. — Pale; flushes readily; pits on pressure.

Fever. — General coldness of extremities; head and
face hot. Chill at 4 a. mM. Heat in palms and soles.
Profuse, debilitating sweat.

Modalities. — Bettcr, walking slowly about. Better
after rising. Worse, while sweating; at night; while
sitting still. After cold washing and overheating. Mid-
night aggravation,

Relationship. — Antidotes: Ars.: H. ep.

Complementary: Chin.; Alum.; Hamamel.

Compare: Rumex (similar in respiratory and diges-
tive sphere and contains organic iron.)

Ferrum aceticum (epistaxis; especially adapted to
thin, pale, weak children who grow rapidly and are
easily exhausted; varices of the feet; copious expec-
toration of greenish pus; asthma; worse, sitting still
and lying: phthisis, constant cough, vomiting of food
after eating, hemoptysis).

Ferrum arsenicum (enlarged spleen, with fever, un-
digested stool; albuminuria).
FERRUM METALLICUM —FERRUM PHOSPHORICUM 333

Ferrum bromatum (sticky, excoriating leucorrhcea;
uterus heavy and prolapsed, scalp feels numb).

Ferrum cyanatum (neuroses with irritable weakness
and hypersensitiveness, especially of a periodical char-
acter; epilepsy; cardialgia, with nausea, flatulence, con-
stipation, alternating with diarrhoea; chorea).

Ferrum magneticum (small warts on hands).

Ferrum muriaticum (Arrested menstruation; ten-
dency to semina! emissions or copious urination at pub-
erty; very dark, watery stools; diphtheria; phlegmonous
ervsipelas; pvelitis; hemoptysis of dark, clotty blood;
dyspareunia; pain in right shoulder, right elbow, and
marked tendency to cramps and round red spots on
cheeks; bright crystals in urine. Anaemia, 3x, after
meals).

Ferrnm sulphuricum (pain in gall-bladder; tooth-
ache; acidity; eructation of food in mouthfuls); Fer-
rum pernilricum (cough, with florid complexion) ; Fer-
aun tartaricum (cardialgia; heat at cardiac’orifice of
stomach).

Compare also: Graph.; Mangan.; Cupr. Ferrum pro-
coxalatum (Anzamia).

Dose. — States of debility where the blood is poor in
hematin require material doses; plethoric, hemorrhagic
conditions call for small doses, from the second to the
sixth potency.

FERRUM PHOSPHORICUM
(Phosphate of Iron)

Ferr. phos. —In the early stages of febrile conditions,
it stands midway between sthenic activity of Aconite
and Bell, and the asthenic sluggishness and torpidity of
Gels. The typical Ferr. phos. subject is not full blooded
and robust, but nervous, sensitive, anemic with the false
plethora and easy flushing of Ferrum. Prostration
334 FERRUM PHOSPHORICUM

marked; face more active than Gels. The superficial
redness never assumes the dusky hue of Gels. Pulse
soft and flowing; no anxious restlessness of leon.
Susceptibility to chest troubles. Bronchitis of young
children. In acute exacerbation of tuberculosis, a fine
palliative of wonderful power.

The remedy for first stage of all febrile disturbances
and inflammations before exudation sets in; especially
for catarrhal affections of the respiratory tract. Jierr.
phos. 3x increases hemoglobin. In pale, anaemic sub-
jects, with violent local congestions. Hmorrhages,
bright from any orifice.

Head. — Soreness to touch, cold, noise, jar. Rush of
blood to head. Ill effects of sun-heat. Throbbing sen-
sation. Vertigo. Headache beticr cold applications.

Eyes.— Red, inflammed, with burning sensation.
Fecling as of sand under lids. NHyperzmia of optic disc
and retina, with blurred visian

Ears. — Noises. Throbbing. First stage of atitis.
Membrana tympani red and bulging. Acute otitis; when
Bellad. fails, prevents suppuration.,

Nose. — First stage of colds in the head. Predisposi-
tion to colds. Epistaris; bright red blood.

Face. — Flushed; cheeks sore and hot. Florid com-
plexion. Facial neuralgia; worse, shaking head and
stooping.

Throat.— Mouth hot; fauces red, indamed. Ulcer-
ated sore throat. Tonsils red and swollen. Eustachian
tubes inflamed. Sore throat of singers. :Subacute
laryngitis with fauces inflamed and red (2x). After
operations on throat and nose to control bleeding and

relieve screness. First stage of diphtheria. Ranula in
vascular, sanguine constitutions.

Stomach. — Aversion to meat and milk. Desire for
FERRUM PHOSPHORICUM — FERRUM PICRICUM 335

stimulants. J }’omiting of undigested food. Vomiting
of bright red blood. Sour eructations.

Abdomen. — First stage of peritonitis. Heemorrhvids.
Stools watery, bloody, undigested. First stage of dysen-
tery, with much blood in discharges.

Urinary. — Urine spurts with every cough. Inconti-
nence. Irritation at neck of bladder. Polyuria. Dinw-
nal enuresis.

Female. — Menses every three weeks, with bearing-
down sensation and pain on top of head. Vaginisinus.
Vagina dry and hot.

Respiratory. — First stage of all inflammatory affec-
tions. Congestions of lungs. Hea:moptysis. Short, pain-
ful tickling cough. Croup. Hard, dry cough, with
sore chest. Hfoarseness. Lirpectoration of pure bluod
m pneumonia, [Aillefol.] '

Heart. — Palpitation; pulse rapid. First stage of car-
diac diseases. Short, quick, sofi pulse.

Extremities. — Stiff neck. Articular rheumatism.
Crick in back: Rheumatic pain in shoulder; pains ex-
tend to chest and wrist. Whitlow. Palms hot. Hands
swollen and painful.

Sleep. — Restless and sleepless. Anxious dreams.
Night sweats of anemia.

Fever. — Chill daily at ] p.m. All catarrhal and in-
flammatory fevers; first stage.

Modalities. — Worse, at night and 4 to 6 a. m.; touch,
jar, motion, right side. Better, cold applications.

Relationship. — Compare: Ferrum pyrophosph. (con-
gestion of brain and headache following great loss of
blood; tarsal cysts) ; Alcon.; Gelsen.; China.

Dose. —- Third to twelfth potency.
336 FERRUM PIC.—FICUS RELIGIOSA

FERRUM PICRICUM
(Picrate of Iron)

Is considered a great remedy to complete the action
of other medicines, The symptom that specially calls
for it is failure of the function of an organ under ex-
ertion; e. g., the voice fails after public speaking. Acts
best in dark-haired patients, plethoric, with sensitive
livers. Warts and epithelial growths: corns with yel-
lowish discoloration. Senile hypertrophy of the pros-
tate. Epistaxis. Chronic deafness and tinnitus due to
gout. Meatus dry. Pseudo-leucemia.

Ears. — Deafness before menses. Crackling in ears
and low-pitched voice. Vascular deafness. Dental
neuralgia, radiating towards ears and eyes. Humming
in ears as from telegraph wires.

Stomach. — Indigestion, furred tongue, headache af-
ter meals, especially in bilious, dark-haired persons.

Urinary. — Pain along entire urethra. Frequent mic-
turition at night, with full feeling and pressure in rec-
tum. Smarting at neck of bladder and penis. [Bar-
osma.] Retention of urine.

Extremities. — Pain in right side of neck and down
right arm. Locomotor ataxia, ocular stage. Warty
hands.

Dose. —- Second and third trituration.

FICUS RELIGIOSA
(Ashwathya)

This East Indian drug causes and cures haemorrhages
of many kinds. Hzmatemesis, menorrhagia, hemopty-
sis, etc. Bloody urine.

Head. -— Melancholic — quiet ; burning at vertex; ver-
tigo and slight headache.

Stomach. — Nausea, vomiting of bright red blood;
pain and sick feeling in stomach.
336 FERRUM PIC.—FICUS RELIGIOSA

FERRUM PICRICUM
(Picrate of Iron)

Is considered a great remedy to complete the action
of other medicines, The symptom that specially calls
for it is failure of the function of an organ under ex-
ertion; e. g., the voice fails after public speaking. Acts
best in dark-haired patients, plethoric, with sensitive
livers. Warts and epithelial growths: corns with yel-
lowish discoloration. Senile hypertrophy of the pros-
tate. Epistaxis. Chronic deafness and tinnitus due to
gout. Meatus dry. Pseudo-leucemia.

Ears. — Deafness before menses. Crackling in ears
and low-pitched voice. Vascular deafness. Dental
neuralgia, radiating towards ears and eyes. Humming
in ears as from telegraph wires.

Stomach. — Indigestion, furred tongue, headache af-
ter meals, especially in bilious, dark-haired persons.

Urinary. — Pain along entire urethra. Frequent mic-
turition at night, with full feeling and pressure in rec-
tum. Smarting at neck of bladder and penis. [Bar-
osma.] Retention of urine.

Extremities. — Pain in right side of neck and down
right arm. Locomotor ataxia, ocular stage. Warty
hands.

Dose. —- Second and third trituration.

FICUS RELIGIOSA
(Ashwathya)

This East Indian drug causes and cures haemorrhages
of many kinds. Hzmatemesis, menorrhagia, hemopty-
sis, etc. Bloody urine.

Head. -— Melancholic — quiet ; burning at vertex; ver-
tigo and slight headache.

Stomach. — Nausea, vomiting of bright red blood;
pain and sick feeling in stomach.
FICUS RELIG. — FILIX MAS—FLUORICUM ACID. 337

Respiratory. — Difficult breathing; cough with vomit-
ing of blood; pulse very weak.

Relationship. — Compare: Acalypha; Millefol.;
Thlaspi; Ipecac.

Dose. — First potency.

FILIX MAS
(Male Fern)

A remedy for worm symptoms, especially with con-
stipation. Tapeworm. Soporific conditions. Torpid
inflammations of lymphatic glands. (Maceration of
fresh root.) Pulmonary tubeculosis in young patients,
no fever, with limited, ulcerated lesions, formerly-clas-
sified as scrofula.

Eyes. --- Blindness, monocular amblyopia.

Abdomen. — Bloated. Gnawing pain; worse eating
sweets. Diarrhoea and vomiting. Worm colic, with
itching of nose, pale face, blue rings around eyes. ,Pain-
Jess hiccough.

Relationship. — Compare: Cina; Granat.; Kousso.

Dose. —- First to third potency. For the exfulsion of
tapeworm, a full dose of 4 to 1 dram of the Oleoresin,
fasting.

FLUORICUM ACIDUM
(Hydrofluoric Acid)

Acts especially upon lower tissues, and indicated in
deep, destructive processes, bed-sores, ulcerations, vari-
cose veins, and ulcers. Patient is compelled to move
about energetically. Complaints of old age, or the
prematurely aged, with weak, distended blood vessels.
Hob-nailed liver of alcoholics.

Mind. -—— Indifference towards those loved best; in-
ability to realize responsibility; buoyancy. Mentally
elated and gay.
338 FLUORICUM ACIDUM

Head. — Alopecia. Caries of skin. Pressure on sides
of head from within outward. Caries of ossicles and
mastoid, with copious discharge; worse warmth.
[Silica; worse cold.] Exostosis.

Eyes. — Sensation as of wind blowing through eyes.
Lachrymal! fistula. Violent itching of inner canthus.

Nose. — Chronic nasal catarrh with ulceration of the
septum; nose obstructed and dull heavy pain in fore-
head.

Mouth. — Dental fistula, with persistent bloody, salty
discharge. Syphilitic ulceration of throat, which is very
sensitive to cold. Teeth feel warm. Affects teeth and
bones of upper jaw.

Stomach, — Heaviness and weight in stomach. Heat
in stomach before meals. Sour eructations. Averse to
coftee, wants fancy dishes. Stomach symptoms relieved
by tight clothes. Desire for highly seasoned food.

Abdomen. — Soreness over liver. Flatus and eructa-
tions.

Stool. — Bilious diarrhoea, with aversion to coffee.

Male. — Burning in urethra. Sexual passion and de-
sire increased, with erections at night, during sleep.
Swollen scrotum.

Urine. — Scanty, dark. In dropsy. produces frequent
and free discharge, with great relief.

Female. — Menses copious, frequent, too long. UI-
ceration of uterus and os. Copious and excoriating leu-
corrhea. Nymphomania.

Respiratory. — Oppression of chest, difficult breathing,
great dyspnoea. Hydrothorax.

Extremities. — Inflammation of joints of fingers.
Feeling as of a splinter under nail. Nails crumble.
Caries and necrosis, especially of long bones.

Skin. — Varicose veins, Nevi. Ulcers; red edges
and vesicles. Decubitus; worse, warmth. Itching of
FLUORICUM ACIDUM — FORMALIN 339

cicatrices. Feels as if burning vapor were emitted from
pores. Jtching especially of the orifices, and in spots,
worse warmth. Nails grow rapidly. Periosteal abscess.
Profuse, sour, offensive perspiration. Syphilitic tuber-
cles. Dropsy of limbs in old, feeble constitutions.
Atony of capillary and venous system.

Modalities. — Worse, warmth, morning. Better, cold,
while walking. :

Relationship. -- Compare: Thiosinaminum (action on
cicatricial tissues; adhesions, strictures, tumors) ; Calc.
fluor.; Silica.

Complementary: Silica.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency,

FORMALIN
(Aqueous Solution (35 per cent) of Formaldehyde
Gas)

Is a powerful disinfectant and deodorant; a potent
poison. . Prevents growth and kills almost any patho-
genic micro-organism. It seems to have the peculiar
property of eating into malignant tumors, leaving the
surrounding healthy tissue uncharred and unchanged.
A plug of cotton wool soaked in a 20 per cent. solution
of Formaldehyde, and applied for a few hours, will pro-
duce a necrotic slough, which must be scraped away
before the next application, otherwise it hardens.

Formalin in hot water as vapor most valuable thera-
peutic agent in pertussis, in phthisis, in catarrhal affec-
tions of upper air-passages.

Mind. — Forgetfulness. Anxiety. Unconscious.

Head. — Coryza; eyes water; vertigo.

Mouth. — Ptyalism, thick saliva; loss of taste.

Stomach. — Food feels as if it were a ball in stomach.
Burning in mouth and stomach.

Abdomen. — Intense urging to stool, watery stools.
340 FORMALIN — FORMICA RUFA

Urinary. — Anuria; albuminous urine.

Respiratory. — Dyspnea. Laryngismus _ stridulus.
W hooping-cough.

Fever. — Chills in forenoon, followed by long fever.
Bones ache during whole paroxysm. During fever for-
gets where he was. .

Skin. — Puckers skin like ieather ; wrinkles; scales off.
Eczema in neighborhood of wound. Damp sweat most
marked on right upper extremity.

Relationship. — Antidote: Ammonia water. Com-
pare: Ammonium formaldehyde, known commercially
as Cystogen. (Dose, five to seven grains two to four
times daily, dissolved in hot water, after meals. Tre-
vents the decomposition of urine in the bladder, kid-
neys, and ureters. Turbid urine rendered clear and
non-irritating; phosphatic deposits dissolved, and
growth of pyogenic bacteria arrested). Also, Urotro-
pin. A diuretic and solvent of uric acid concretions;
relieves cystitis associated with putrefaction Three to
five grains well diluted. When administered invariably
appears in the cerebro-spinal fluid and therefore ad-
vised in threatened meningeal infection.

Dose. ---As vapor in hot water in respiratory affec
tions; 1 per cent, spray, otherwise 3x potency.

FORMICA RUFA (MYRMEXINE)
(Crushed Live Ants)

An arthritic medicine. Gout and articular rheuma-
tism; pains worse, motion; better, pressure. Right side
most affected. Chronic gout and stiffness in joints.
Acute outbursts of gouty poisons, especially when assum-
ing the neuralgic forms. Tuberculosis, carcinoma, and
lupus; chronic nephritis, Complaints from overlifting.
Apoplectic diseases. Has a marked deterrent influence
an the formation of polypi.
FORMICA RUFA 341

Head. — Vertigo. Headache with cracking in left
ear. Brain feels too heavy and large. Sensation as if
a bubble burst in forehead. Forgetful in the evening.
Exhilarated. Coryza and stopped-up feeling in nose.
Rheumatic iritis. Nasal polypi.

Ears. — Ringing and buzzing. Cracking in left ear
with headache. Parts around ear feel swollen. Polypi.

Stomach. — Constant pressure at the cardiac end of
the stomach, and a burning pain there. Nausea, with
headache, and vomiting of yellowish bitter mucus.
Pains shift frorn stomach to vertex.

Abdomen and Stool. — In the morning, difficult pas-
sages of smali quantities of flatus; afterwards diar-
rhoea-like urging in the rectum. Pain in bowels before
stool. Severe pain in the bowels, with shuddering chil-
liness. Constriction in the anus.

Urine. — Bloody, albuminous, with much urging;
quantities of urates.

Respiratory. — Hoarseness, with dry, sore throat;
cough worse at night, with aching in forehead and con-
strictive pain in chest; pleuritic pains.

Sexual. — Seminal emissiors; weakness. “Slothful
to venery.”

Extremities. — Rheumatic pains; stiff and contracted
joints. Muscles feel strained and torn from their at-
tachment. Weakness of lower extremities. Paraplegia.
Pain in hips. Rheumatism comes on with suddenness
and restlessness. Sweat does not relieve.

Skin. — Red, ttching and burning. Nettle-rash. Nodes
around joints. [Ammon. phos.] Profuse sweat with-
out relief.

Modalities. — Worse, cold and cold washing, before a
snowstorm. Better, warmth, pressure, rubbing. Comb-
ing hair.
342 FORMICA RUFA — FRAGARIA

Relationship.— Compare: Formic acid. Chronic
myalgia Muscular pains and soreness. Gout and ar-
ticular rheumatism, which appear suddenly. Pains usu-
ally worse on right side, motion and better from pres-
sure. Failing vision. (Increases muscular strength and
resistance to fatigue. Feels stronger and more “fit” in
ordinary walking. Marked diuretic effect, greater
elimination of products of disassimilation, particularly
urea). Tremor. Tuberculosis, chrenic nephritis and
carcinoma, lupus, etc., have been treated successfully
with injections of Formic acid of a dilution correspond-
ing to the 3d and 4th centesimal. In prescribing it for
varicose veins, polypi, catarrh, Dr. J. H. Clarke orders
an ounce or two of a solution of Formic acid in the
proportion of one part of the acid to eleven of distilled
water. Of this one teaspoonful is taken in a table-
spoonful of water after food once or twice daily. Pain
in aponeurosis and muscles of head. neck and shoulders
before a snowstorm, Fhus: (Dulcan Urtica and Juni-
perus contain Formic acid), Calc. fluor.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth attenuation.

FRAGARIA
(Wood-strawberry)

Acts on digestion and mesenteric glands.

Chilblains; worse during hot weather. Lack of mam-
mary secretion, Psilosis. (Spruce.)

Mouth. — Tongue swollen; strawberry tongue.

Skin. — Urticaria; petechial and erysipelatous erup-
tions. Sweliing of whole body.

Relationship.---Compare: Apis; Galega— Goat's
Rue — (increases the quantity and quality of the milk
in nursing women, also the appetite),
FRAXINUS AMERICANA — FULIGO LIGNI 343

FRAXINUS AMERICANA
(White Ash)

Enlargement of the uterus. Fibrous growths, subin-
volution, and prolapse. Uterine tumors, with bearing-
down sensations. Fever sores on lips. Cramps in feet.
Cold creeping and hot flashes. Infantile eczema.

Head.— Throbbing pain in back of head. Depres-
sion, with nervous restlessness, anxiety. Hot spot on
top of head.

Female. — Uterus enlarged, and patulous. Watery,
unirritating leucorrhoea. Fibroids with bearing-down
sensation, cramping in feet, worse in afternoon and
night,

Abdomen. — Tenderness in left inguinal region; bear-
ing down pain, extending down thigh.

Relationship, — Compare: Fraxrinus excelsior — Euro-
pean ash— (Gout; rhcumatism. Infusion of ash-
leaves). _ Galega— Goat's Rue-- Backache; debility;
anzmia and impaired nutrition. Epiphegus; Sepia; Lil-
lium. .

Dose. — Ten to fifteen drops of gincture, three times a
day.

FULIGO LIGNI
(Soot)

Acts on glandular system,.mucous membranes and
cbstinate ulcers, epidermis, tetters, eczema. Chronic
irritations of mucous membranes of mouth; pruritus-
,ulvee; uterine hemorrhage; cancer, especially of scro-
tum—chimney sweeper’s cancer; epithelial cancers;
cancer of womb with metorrhagia; sadness, thoughts
of suicide.

Relationship. — Compare: Kreosot.

Dose. — Sixth trituraticn.
344 FUCUS VES. —-FUCHSINA —~GALIUM APARINE

FUCUS VESICULOSUS
(Sea Kelp)

A powerful remedy for obesity and goitre; also ex-
ophthalmic. Digestion is furthered and flatulence di-
minished, Obstinate constipation; forehead feels as if
compressed by an iron ring.

Relationship. — Compare: Phytol.; Thyroidine; Badi-
aga; lodum.

Dose. — Tincture, teaspoonful doses three times a day.

FUCHSINA

(A Coloring Substance Used in Adulteration
of Wine)

Produces redness of ears, deep red discoloration of
mouth, swollen gums, with burning and tendency to
salivation; deep red urine, albuminous, and light red,
profuse diarrhoea, with abdominal pains. Cortical sub-
stance of kidneys degenerated. Useful in cortical ne-
phritis with albuminuria.

Dose. —- 6x to 30th potency.

GALIUM APARINE
(Goose-Grass)

Galicum acts on the urinary organs, is a diuretic and
of use in dropsies, gravel and calculi. Has power of
suspending or modifying cancerous action. Has clinical
confirmation of its use in cancerous ulcers and nodulated
tumors of the tongue. Invetcrate skin affections and
scurvy. lavors healthy granulations on ulcerated sur-
faces.

Dose. — Fluid extract; dram doses, in cup of water or
milk, three times a day.
GALLICUM ACIDUM —GAMBOGIA 345

GALLICUM ACIDUM
(Gallic Acid)

Should be remembered as a remedy in phthists. It
checks the morbid secretions, gives tone to the stomach,
and increases the appetite. Hzemorrhages. Itching of
skin. Pyrosis.

Mind. — Wild delirium at night; very restless, jumps
out of bed; sweats; is afraid to be alone; is rude and
abuses every one.

Head.— Pain in back of head and neck. Thick,
stringy discharge from nose; photophobia with burning
of lids,

Respiratory.— Pain in lungs; pulmonary hamor-
rhage; excessive expectoration. Much mucus in throat
in the morning. Dry at night.

Rectum. — Copious stool; anus feels constricted. Faint
feeling after stool.

Relationship. — Compare: Ars.; Iod.; Phos.

Dose, — First trituration.

GAMBOGIA
(Gummi Gutti)

The use of this drug in Homceopathy has been con-
fined to its action on the alimentary tract. It produces
a diarrhoea very similar to Croton. From its patho-
genesis, it is very evident that it has very intense and
definite action especially on the gastro-enteric tract.

Head. — Heavy, with inertia, and drowsiness. Itch-
ing and burning in eyes; lids stick together, with
sneesing.

Gastro-enteric Symptoms. — Feeling of coldness at
edge of teeth. Great irritability of the stomach; burn-
346 ‘ GAMBOGIA — GAULTHERIA

ing, smarting, and dryness of the tongue and throat.
Pain in the stomach after food. Tenderness in epigas-
trium. Pain and distention of abdomen from flatulence,
after stool. Rumbling and rolling. Dysentery, with re-
tained scybala, with pain in sacral region. Diarrhoea,
with sudden and forcible ejection of bilious stools.
Tenesmus after, with burning at anus. Ileo-caecal region
sensitive to pressure. Profuse, watery diarrhcea in hot
weather, particularly old people. Pain in coccyx.

Modalities. — Worse, towards evening and at night.

Relationship. — Compare: Croton; Aloes; Pod.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency. Gamboge painted
on the chest in lung tuberculosis is considered by Abrams
specific and incipient cases are symptomatically cured in
several weeks.

GAULTHERIA
(Wintergreen)

Inflammatory rheumatism, pleurodynia, sciatica, and
other neuralgias, come within the sphere of this remedy.
Cystic and prostatic irritation, undue sexual’ excitement,
and renai inflammation. ‘

Head. — Neuralgia of head and face.

Stomach. — Acute gastritis, severe pain in epigas-
trium ; prolonged vomiting. Uncontrollable appetite, not-
withstanding irritable stomach. Gastralgia from nervous
depression. (Give five drops of Ix of Oil.)

Skin.-— Starting and burning. Intense erythema,
worse, cold bathing; better, clive oil and cool air blowing
on part,

Relationship.— Compare: Spir@a. Caultheria con-
tains Arbutin. Salycyl. acid. Methylium  salicylicum
(an artificial Gaultheria oil for rheumatism, especially
when the salicylates cannot be used. Pruritus and epi-
didymitis, focally). After Cantharis in burns.
346 ‘ GAMBOGIA — GAULTHERIA

ing, smarting, and dryness of the tongue and throat.
Pain in the stomach after food. Tenderness in epigas-
trium. Pain and distention of abdomen from flatulence,
after stool. Rumbling and rolling. Dysentery, with re-
tained scybala, with pain in sacral region. Diarrhoea,
with sudden and forcible ejection of bilious stools.
Tenesmus after, with burning at anus. Ileo-caecal region
sensitive to pressure. Profuse, watery diarrhcea in hot
weather, particularly old people. Pain in coccyx.

Modalities. — Worse, towards evening and at night.

Relationship. — Compare: Croton; Aloes; Pod.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency. Gamboge painted
on the chest in lung tuberculosis is considered by Abrams
specific and incipient cases are symptomatically cured in
several weeks.

GAULTHERIA
(Wintergreen)

Inflammatory rheumatism, pleurodynia, sciatica, and
other neuralgias, come within the sphere of this remedy.
Cystic and prostatic irritation, undue sexual’ excitement,
and renai inflammation. ‘

Head. — Neuralgia of head and face.

Stomach. — Acute gastritis, severe pain in epigas-
trium ; prolonged vomiting. Uncontrollable appetite, not-
withstanding irritable stomach. Gastralgia from nervous
depression. (Give five drops of Ix of Oil.)

Skin.-— Starting and burning. Intense erythema,
worse, cold bathing; better, clive oil and cool air blowing
on part,

Relationship.— Compare: Spir@a. Caultheria con-
tains Arbutin. Salycyl. acid. Methylium  salicylicum
(an artificial Gaultheria oil for rheumatism, especially
when the salicylates cannot be used. Pruritus and epi-
didymitis, focally). After Cantharis in burns.
GELSEMIUM 347

GELSEMIUM
(Yellow Jasmine)

Centers its action upon the nérvous system, causing
various degrees of motor paralysis. General prostra-
tion, Dissiness, drowsiness, dullness, and trembling.
Slow pulse, tired feeling, mental apathy. Paralysis of
various groups of muscles about the eyes, throat, chest,
larynx, sphincter, extremities, etc. Muscular weakness.
Complete relaxation and prostration. Lack of mus-
cular co-ordination. General depression from heat of
sun. Sensitive to a falling barometer; cold and damp-+
ness brings on many complaints. Children fear falling,
grab nurse or crib. Sluggish circulation. Nervous af-
fections of cigarmakers.

Mind. — Desire to be quiet, to he left alone. Dull-
ness, languor, listless. “Discernings are lethargied.”
Delirious on falling to sleep. Emotional excitement,
fear. etc., lead to bodily ailments. Bad effects from
fright, fear, exciting news. Stage fright. Child starts
and grasps the nurse, and screams as if afraid of fall-
ing. [Bor.]

Head. — Vertigo, spreading from occiput. Heaviness
of head; band-feeling around and occipital headache.
Dull, heavy ache, with heaviness of eyelids; bruised
sensation; better, compression and lying with head high.
Pain in temple, extending into ear and wing of nose,
chin, Headache, with muscular soreness of neck and
shoulders. Headache preceded by blindness; better, pro-
fuse urination, Scalp sore to touch. Delirious on fall-
ing asleep. Wants 10 have head raised on pillow.

Eyes. — Ptosis; eyelids heavy; patient can hardly open
them. Double vision. Vision blurred, smoky. [Cycl.;
Phos.) Dim-sighted; pupils dilated and insensible to
348 GELSEMIUM

light. Orbital neuralgia, with contraction and twitching
of muscles. Bruised pain back of the orbits. One pupil
dilated, the other contracted. Deep inflammations, with
haziness of vitreous. Serous inflammations. Albu-
minuric retinitis, Detached retina, glaucoma and
descemetitis. Hysterical amblyopia.

Nose. — Sneezing; fullness at root of nose. Dryness
of nasal fosse. Swelling of turbinates. Watery, ex-
coriating discharge. Acute coryza, with dull headache
and fever.

Face. — Hot heavy, flushcd, besotted-looking. [Bapt.;
Op.) Neuralgia of face. Dusky hue of face, with
vertigo and dim vision. Facial muscles contracted, es-
pecially around the mouth. Chin quivers. Lower jaw
dropped.

Mouth. — Putrid taste and breath. Tongue numb,
thick, coated, yellowish, trembles, paraylzed.

Throat. — Difficult swallowing, especially of warm
food. Itching and tickling in soft palate and naso-
pharynx. Pain in sterno-cleido-mastoid, back of parotid.
Tonsils swollen. Throat feels rough, burning. Post-
diphtheritic puralysis. Tonsillitis; shooting pain into
ears. Feeling of a lump in throat that cannot be swal-
lowed. Aphonia. Swallowing causes pain in ear. [Hep.;
Nux.] Difficult swallowing. Pain from throat to ear.

Stomach. — As a rule, the Gelsemium patient has no
‘thirst. Hiccough; worse in the evening. Sensation of
emptiness and weakness at the pit of the stomach, or
of an oppression, like a heavy load.

Stool. -- Diarrhasa from emotional excitement, fright,
bad news. [Phos. ac.] Stool painless or involuntary.
Cream-colored [Calc.], tea-green. Partial paralysis of
féctum and sphincter,
GELSEMIUM 349

Urine. — Profuse, clear, watery, with chilliness and
tremulousness. Dysuria. Partial paralysis of bladder;
flow intermittent. [Clematis.]

Female.— Rigid os. [Bell.]  Vaginismus. False
labor-pains; pains pass up back. Dysmenorrhea, with
scanty flow; menses retarded. Pain extends to back
and hips. Aphonia and sore throat during menses. Sen-
sation as if uterus were squeezed. [Cham.; Nux v.;
Ustilago.]

Male. — Spermatorrhwa, without erections, Genitals
cold and relaxed. [Phos. ac.] Scrotum continually
sweating. Gonorrhoea, first stage; discharge scanty;
tendency to corrode; little pain, but much heat; smart-
ing at meatus.

Respiratory.— Slowness of breathing, with great
prostration. Oppression about chest. Dry cough, with
sore chest and fluent coryza. Spasm of the glottis.
Aphonia; ‘acute bronchitis, respiration quickened, spas-
modic affections of lungs and diaphragm.

Heart.— 4 feeling as if it were necessary to keep in
motion, or else heart’s action would cease. Slow pulse.
[Dig.; Kalm.; Apoc. can.} Palpitation; pulse soft,
weak, full and flowing. Pulse slow when quiet, but
greatly accelerated on motion. Weak, slow pulse of
old age.

Back. — Dull, heavy pain. Complete relaxation of the
whole muscular system. Languor; muscles feel bruised.
Every little exertion causes fatigue. Pain in neck, es-
pecially upper sterno-cleido muscles. Dull aching in
lumbar and sacral region, passing upward. Pain in
muscles of back, hips, and lower extremities, mostly
deep-seated.

Extremities. — Loss of power of muscular control.
Cramp in muscles of furearm. Professional neuroses.
350 GELSEMIUM

Writer’s cramp. Excessive trembling and weakness of
all limbs. Hysteric convulsions. Fatigue after slight
exercise.

Sleep. — Cannot get fully to sleep. Delirious on
falling asleep. Insomnia from exhaustion; from un-
controjlable thinking; tobacco, Yawning. Sleepless
from nervous irritation. [Coffec.]

Fever.— Wants to be held, because he shakes so.
Pulse slow, full, soft, compressible. Chilliness up and
down back. Heat and sweat stages, long and exhaust-
ing. Dumb-ague, with much muscular soreness, great
prostration, and violent headache. Nervous chills.
Bilious remittent fever, with stupor, dizziness, faint-
ness; thirstless, prostrated. Chill, without thirst, along
spine; wave-like, extending upward from sacrum to
occiput.

Skin.— Hot, dry, itching, measle-like eruption.
Erysipelas. Measles, catarrhal symptoms; aids in bring-
ing out eruption. Retrocedent, with livid spots. Scar-
let fever with stupor and flushed face.

Modalities. —- Worse, damp weather, fog, before a
thunder-storm, emotion, or excitement, bad news, to-
bacco-smoking, when thinking of his ailments; at 10
A.M. Better, bending forward,* by. profuse urination,
open air, continued motion, stimulants.

Relationship. Compare: Ignatia (gastric affections
of cigarmakers); Baptisa; Ipecac.; Acon.: Bell.;
Cimicif.; Magnes. phos. (Gelsem. contains some Mag-
nes. phos.)

Antidotes: China; Coffea; Dig.

Pose.-— Tincture, to thirtieth attenuation; first to
third most often used.
GENTIANA LUTEA—GERANIUM MACULATUM 351

GENTIANA LUTEA
(Yellow Gentian)

Stomach symptoms marked. Acts as a tonic, increas-
ing appetite.

Head. — Vertigo, worse, rising or motion; better
open air. Frontal headache, better eating and open air.
Brain feels loose, head tender. Aching in eyes.

Throat.— Dry. Thick saliva.

Stomach, — Acid risings, ravenous hunger, nausea,
weight and aching in stomach. Inflation and tension of
stomach and abdomen. [Pothos.] Colic, umbilical
region sensitive to touch. Flatulence.

Relationship. — Compare: Gentiana quinque flora (in-
intermittent fever; dyspepsia, cholera infantum, weak-
ness); Gentiana cruciata (throat symptoms in addition
to similar stomach symptoms; dysphagia; vertigo with
headache; pressing inward sensation in eyes; con-
stricted throat and head and abdomen. Distension, ful-
ness and tightness in abdomen. Hydrast.; Nux.

Dose. — First to third’attenuation.

GERANIUM MACULATUM
(Crane’s-bill)
Habitual sick headaches. Profuse hemorrhages, pul-

monary and from different organs. Vomiting of blood.
Ulceration of stomach, Atonic and foul ulcers.
Head. — Giddiness, with diplopia; better, closing
eyes. Ptosis and dilated pupils. Sick headache.
Mouth. — Dry; tip of tongue burning. Pharyngitis.
Stomach. — Catarrhal gastritis with profuse secre-
tion, tendency to ulceration and passive hemorrhage.
Lessens the vomiting in gastric ulcer,
352 GERANIUM MAC. — GETTYSBURG WATER — GINSENG

Stool. — Constant desire to go to stool, with inabil-
ity to pass anything for some time. Chronic diarrhea,
with offensive mucus. Constipation.

Female. — Menses too profuse. Post-partum hemor-
rhage. Sore nipples. [Eup. arom.]

Relationship.— Compare: Geranin. 1x. Constant
hawking and spitting in elderly people. Erodium—
Hemlock — Stork’s bill—(a popular hemostatic in
Russia, and especially used for metrorrhagia and men-
orrhagia) ; Hydrastinin; Cinch,; Sabin.

Dose. — Tincture, half-dram doses in gastric ulcer.
Tincture, to third attenuation, as a general rule. Locally,
in ulcers, it will destroy the pyogenic membrane.

GETTYSBURG WATER

Stringy mucus from throat and posterior nares. Raw-
ness Neck muscles rigid. Joints weak. Cannot lift
things. Ligaments rigid. Subacute gouty state.

GIN SEN G
(Aralia Quinquefolia — — ‘Wild Ginseng — Panax)

Acts on the lower part of the spinal cord. Lumbago:
_ Sciatica, and rehumatism. Paralytic weakness. Hic-
cough,

Head. — Vertigo, with gray spots before eyes;
semi-lateral headache; occipital; difficult opening of
eyelids; objects appear double.

Throat.—Tonsillitis, just like Bellad, but in dark-
complexioned people.

Abdomen. — Tensc, painful, rumbling. Pain in right
side. Loud gurgling in ileo-caecal region. Perityphlitis.

Male, — Rheumatic pains after frequent emissions,
Weakness of genital organs. Voluptuous tickling at

ahd
GINSENG — GLONOINE 353

end of urethra. Sexual excitement. Pressure in tes-
ticle.

Extremities. — Hands feel swollen. Skin feels tight.
Contraction. Coldness in back and spine. Bruised pain
in small of back and thighs; nightly digging in right
lower limb to toes. Burning heat in tips of fingers.
Eruption on upper inner thighs. Stiff, contracted joints,
heaviness of lower limbs, Crackling in joints. Stiff-
ness in back.

Relationship. — Compare: Aral.; Coca.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

GLONOINE = GL. = Glycerine
O = Oxygen
N = Nitrogen
(Nitro-glycerine) (Spirits Glycerinus Nitrate)

Great remedy for congestive headaches, hyperemia
of the brain from excess of heat or cold. Excellent for
-he intercranial, climacteric disturbances, or due to
nenstrual suppression. Childrén get sick when sitting
vefore an open fire. Surging of blood to head and
heart. Tendency to sudden aad violent irregularities
vf the circulation. Violent convulsions, associated with
‘erebral congestion. Sensation of pulsation throughout
ody. Pulsating pains. Cannot recognize localities.

Head. — Confusion, with dizziness. Effects of sun-
itroke; heat on head, as in type-setters and workers
inder gas and electric light. Head heavy, but cannot
‘ay it on pillow. Cannot bear any heat about head.
3etter from uncovering head. Throbbing headache.
Vertigo on assuming upright position. Cerebral conges-
ion. Head feels enormously large, as if skull were too
mall for brain. Sun headaches: increases and de-
354 GLONOINE

creases with the sun. Shocks in head, synchronous with
pulse. Headache in place of menses. Rush of blood
to head in pregnant women. Threatened apoplexy.
Meningitis,

Eyes. — See everything half light, half dark. Let-
ters appear smaller. Sparks before eyes.

Mouth. — Pulsating toothache.

Ears. — Throbbing; Each heat of heart is heard in
ears; full fecling.

Face. — Flushed, hot, livid, pale; sweaty; pains in
root of nose; faceache. Dusky face.

Throat. — Neck feels full. Collars must be opened.
Chokes and swells up under ears.

Stomach. — Gastralgia in anzmic patients with
feeble circulation. Nausea and vomiting. Faint, gnaw-
ing, and empty feeling at pit of stomach.

Abdomen. — Constipation, with itching, painful
hemorrhoids, with pinching in abdomen hefore and after
stool. Diarrhoca; copious blackish, lumpy stools,

Female. — Menses delayed, or sudden cessation with
congestion to head. Climacteric flushing.

Heart. — Laborious action. Fluttering. Palpitation
with dyspnoea. Cannot go uphill. Any exertion brings
on rush of blood to heart and fainting spells. Throb-
bing in the whole body to finger-tips.

Modalities. — Better, brandy. Worse, in sun; ex-
posure to sut-rays, gas, open fire: jar, stooping, having
hair cut, peaches, stimulants; lying down; from 6 a. M.
to noon,

Relationship. — Antidote: Acon.

Compare: Amyl, nit.; Bellad.; Opium; Stram.;
Vergs. vir.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.
GLONOINE — GLYCERINUM 355

For palliative (non-homceopathic) purposes, in an-
gina pectoris, asthma, heart-failure, etc., physiological
doses—i. e., 1/100 of drop—must be given. Here
it is the great emergency remedy. The conditions call-
ing for it are small, wiry pulse, pallor, arterial spasm,
anemia of brain, collapse, feeble heart, syncope, dicrotic
pulse, vertigo,-—the opposite of those indicating a
homeeopathic dosage. Often thus used to lower the
arterial tension in chronic interstitial nephritis.

GLYCERINUM
(Glycerine)

Used homeeopathically, dynamized Glycerine seems
to act deeply and long, building up tissue, hence of
great use in marsamus, debility, mental and physical,
diabetes, etc. It disturbs nutrition in its primary ac-
tion, and, secundarily, seems to improve the general
state of nutrition. (Dr. Wm. B. Griggs.)

‘Head.— Feels full, throbs; mentally confused.
Severe headache two days before menstruation. Occiput
feels full.

Nose. — Stopped up, sneezing, irritating coryza.
Sensation of crawling on mucous membrane.  Post-
nasal dripping.

Chest. -— Hacking cough with sense of weakness.
Chest seems full. Influenza] pneumonia.

Stomach. — Fermentation, burning in stomach and
cesophagus.

Urinary.— Profuse and frequent urination. In-
creased specific gravity and sugar. Diabetes.

Female. — Profuse, long-lasting flow with bearing
down heaviness in uterus. General sense of exhaustion.

Extremities. — Rheumatic pains of a remittent type.
Feet painful and hot, feel enlarged.
356 GLYCERINUM — GNAPHALIUM

Relationship. — Compare: Lactic acid; Gelsemium;
Cale.

Dose. — Thirticth and higher potencies. Pure Gly-
cerine in teaspoonful doses, t. i. d., with lemon juice
for pernicious anzmia.

GNAPHALIUM
(Cut-weed)

A remedy of unquestioned benefit in sciatica, when
pain is associated with numbness of the part affected.
Rheumatism and morning diarrhea. Polyuria.

Face. — Intermittent pains of superior maxillary of
both sides. .

Abdomen. — Borborygmus. Colic; pain in various
parts of the abdomen. Irritated prostate. First stage
of cholera infantum; vomiting and purging.

Female. — Weight and fullness in pelvis. Dysmenor-
rhwa, with scanty aud paiuful menses.

Back, — Chronic backache in lumbar region; better
resting on back. Lumbago with numbness in lower part
of back and weight in pelvis.

Extremities. — Cramps in calves of legs and feet
when in bed. Rheumatic pain in ankle joints and legs.
Intense pain along the sciatic nerve; numbness alter-
nates with pain. Frequent pains in calves and feet.
Gouty pains in big toes. Better, drawing limbs up,
flexing thigh on abdomen. Gouty concretions. [Am-
mon, benz.] Anterior crural neuralgia. [Staph.] Pain
in joints as if they lacked oil. Chronic muscular rheu-
matism of back and neck,

Relationship. -- Compare: Xanthoxyl.; Chamom.;
Pulsat.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.
356 GLYCERINUM — GNAPHALIUM

Relationship. — Compare: Lactic acid; Gelsemium;
Cale.

Dose. — Thirticth and higher potencies. Pure Gly-
cerine in teaspoonful doses, t. i. d., with lemon juice
for pernicious anzmia.

GNAPHALIUM
(Cut-weed)

A remedy of unquestioned benefit in sciatica, when
pain is associated with numbness of the part affected.
Rheumatism and morning diarrhea. Polyuria.

Face. — Intermittent pains of superior maxillary of
both sides. .

Abdomen. — Borborygmus. Colic; pain in various
parts of the abdomen. Irritated prostate. First stage
of cholera infantum; vomiting and purging.

Female. — Weight and fullness in pelvis. Dysmenor-
rhwa, with scanty aud paiuful menses.

Back, — Chronic backache in lumbar region; better
resting on back. Lumbago with numbness in lower part
of back and weight in pelvis.

Extremities. — Cramps in calves of legs and feet
when in bed. Rheumatic pain in ankle joints and legs.
Intense pain along the sciatic nerve; numbness alter-
nates with pain. Frequent pains in calves and feet.
Gouty pains in big toes. Better, drawing limbs up,
flexing thigh on abdomen. Gouty concretions. [Am-
mon, benz.] Anterior crural neuralgia. [Staph.] Pain
in joints as if they lacked oil. Chronic muscular rheu-
matism of back and neck,

Relationship. -- Compare: Xanthoxyl.; Chamom.;
Pulsat.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.
GOLONDRINA — GOSSYPIUM 357

GOLONDRINA
(Euphorbia Polycarpa)

An antidote to snake-poison. Its use also renders
the body immune to the influence of the snake venom,
and thus as a prophylactic. [Indigo.]

Relationship. —— Compare: The Euphorbias; Cedron;
Gymnema sylvesire (will abolish the taste of bitter
things; sense of taste altered; powdered root for snake-
bite) ; Sisyrinchium — Blue-eyed grass — Ten to fifteen
drop doses of tincture (rattlesnake bites).

GOSSYPIUM
(Cotton-plant)

A powerful emmenagogue, used in physiological doses.
Homiceopathically, it corresponds to many reflex condi-
tions, depending on disturbed uterine function and
pregnancy. Gossypium will relieve tardy menses, espe-
cially with sensation that the flow is about to start and
yet does not do so. Tall, bloodless patients, with nervous
chills.

Head. — Pain in cervical region with tendency for
head to draw backward with nervousness,

* Stomach. — Nausea, with inclination to vomit be-
fore breakfast. Anorexia, with uneasy feeling at scrobi-
culum at time of menses.

Female. — Labia swollen and itching. Intermittent
pain in ovaries. Retained placenta. Tumor of the
breast with swelling of axillary glands. Morning sick-
ness, with sensitive uterine region. Suppressed men-
struation. Menses too watery. Backache, weight and
dragging in pelvis.

Relationship, — Conipare: Action similar to Ergot
when made from fresh green root. Lilium; Cimicif.;
Sabina.

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth attenuation.
358 GRANATUM — GRAPHITES

GRANATUM
(Pomegranate)

As a vermifuge for the expulsion of tapeworm, and
homeopathically for the following symptomatic indica-
tions. Salwation, with nausea, and vertigo. Spasm of
the glottis.

Head. — Feels empty. Sunken eyes; pupils dilated;
weak sight. Vertigo very persistent.

Stomach. — Consiant hunger. Poor digestion. Loses
flesh. Vomiting at night.

Abdomen. — Pain in stomach and abdomen; worse
about umbilicus [Cocc.; Nux m.; Plumb.]; ineffectual
urging. Itching at anus. Dragging in vaginal region,
as if hernia would protrude. Swelling resembling um-
bilical hernia.

Chest. — Oppressed, with sighing. Pain between
shoulders; even clothing is oppressive.

Skin. —Jiching m palms. Sensation as if pimples
would break out. Jaundiced complexion.

Extremities. — Pain around shoulders, as if heavy
load had been carried. Pain in all finger-joints. Tear-
ing in knee-joint. Convulsive movements. :

Relationship. — Compare: Peilctierine (one of its
constituents—an anthelminitic, especially for tape-
worm); Cina; Kousso.

Dose. — First to third potency.

GRAPHITES
(Black Lead)

Like all the carbons, this remedy is an anti-psoric
of great power, but especially active in patients who
are rather stout, of fair complexion, with tendency to
skin affections and constipation, fat, chilly, and costive,
GRAPHITES 359

with delayed menstrual history, take cold easily. Children
impudent, teasing, laugh at reprimands. /[radicates
tendency to erysipelas. Anzmia with redness of face.
Tendency to obesity. Swollen genitals. Gushing leu-
corrheea. Aids absorption of cicatricial tissue.

Mind. — Great tendency to start. Timid. Unable to
decide. Want of disposition to work. Fidgety while
sitting at work. Jfusic makes her weep. Apprehensive,
despondency, indecision.

Head. -- Headache in morning on waking, mostly on
one side, with inclination to vomit. Sensation of cob-
web on forehead. Feels numb and pithy. Rheumatic
pains on one side of head, extending to teeth and neck.
Burning on vertex. Humid, itching eruption on hairy
scajp, emitting a fetid odor. Cataleptic condition.

Eyes. — Ophthalmia, with intolerance of artificial
light. Eyclids red and swollen. Blepharitis. Dryness of
the lids. Ecsema of lids; fissured.

Ears. — Dryness of inner ear. Cracking in ears when
eating. Moisture and eruptions behind the ears. Hears
better in noise. Wardness of hearing. Hissing in the
ears. Detonation in ear like report of a gun. Thin,
white, scaly membrane covering membrana tympani,
like exfoliated epithelium. Fissures in and behind the
ear.

Nose. — Sore on blowing it; is painful internally.
Smell abnormally acute; cannot tolerate flowers. Scabs
and fissures in nostrils.

Face. — Feels as if cobwebs were on it. Itching
pimples. Moist eczema around mouth and chin. Ery-
sipelas, burning and stinging.

Mouth. — Rotten color from mouth. Breath smells
like urine. :
360 GRAPHITFS

Stomach,— Aversion to meat. Sweets nauseate.
Hot drinks disagree. Nausea and vomiting after each
meal. Morning sickness during menstruation. Pres-
sure in stomach. Burning in stomach, causing hun-
ger. Eructation difficult. Constrictive pain in stomach.
Recurrent gastralgia.

Abdomen. — Nauscous fecling in abdomen. Full-
ness and hardness in abdomen, as from incarcerated
flatulence; must loosen clothing; presses painfully at
abdominal ring. Crvoaking in abdomen. Inguinal
region sensitive, swollen. Pain of gas opposite the
side on which he lies. Chronic diarrhoea, stools brown-
ish, liquid, undigested, offensive. Very fetid gas pre-
ceded by colic.

Stool. — Constipation; large, difficult, knotty stools
united by mucus threads. Burning hemorrhoids. Pro-
lapse, diarrhea; stools of brown fluid, mixed with un-
digested substance, very fetid, sour odor, Smarting,
sore anus, itching. Lump stool, conjoined with threads
of mucus. Varices of the rectum,

Urine. -— Turbid, with sediment. Sour smelling.

Female. — Menses too late, with constipation ; pale and
scanty, with tearing pain in epigastrium, and itching
before. Hoarseness, coryza, cough, sweats and morning
sickness during menstruation. Leucorrhcea, pale, thin,
profuse, white, excoriating, with great weakness in back.
Mamme swollen and hard. Nipples sore, cracked, and
blistered. Decided aversion to coitus.

Male. -- Sexual debility, aversion to coition; no
ejaculation; herpetic eruption on ergans.

Respiratory.— Constriction of chest; spasmodic
asthma, suffocative attacks wakes from sleep; must
eat something. Pain in middle of chest, with cough,
GRAPHITES 361

scraping and soreness. Chronic hoarseness with skin
affections. Inability to control the vocal chords; hcarse-
ness on beginning to sing and for breaking voice
(Cartier).

Extremities. — Pain in nape of neck, shoulders and
back and limbs. Spinal pains. Pain in small of back
with great weakness. Excoriation between thighs. Left
hand numb; arms feel asleep; finger-nails thick, black,
and rough, matrix inflamed. [Psor.; Fluor. ac.]
(Edema of lower limbs. Toe-nails crippled. Stiffness
and contraction of toes. Nails brittle and crumbling.
Nails deformed, painful, sore, thick, and crippled.
Cracks or fissures in ends of fingers.

Skin. -— Rough, hard, persistent dryness of portions
of skin unaffected by eczema. Early stage of keloid and
fibroma. Pimples and acne. Eruptions, oozing out a
sticky exudation. Rawness ir, bends of limbs, groins,
neck, behind ears. Unhealthy skin; every little injury
suppurates. Ulcers discharging a glutinous fluid, thin
and sticky. Swelling and induration of glands. Gouty
nodosities. Cracks in nipples. mouth, between toes,
anus. Phlegmonous erysipelas of face; burning and
stinging pain. Swelling of feet. Wens. Chronic
Poison oak,

Modalities. — Worse, warmth, at night, during and
after menstruation. Better, in the dark, from wrapping
up. ;

Relationship. — Complementary: Argent. nit. (follows
well in gastric derangements) ; Caustic.; Hep.; Lycop.;
Ars.; Tuberc.

Compare: Puls.; Calc.; Sep.; Sulph.; Fluor. ac.

Antidote: Nus.; Acon.; Ars.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency. Locally, as a
cerate, in sore nipples.
362 GRATIOLA — GRINDELIA

GRATIOLA
(Hedge Hyssop)

Acts especially on gastro-intestinal tract. Useful in
mental troubles from overweening pride. Especially
useful in females. Nux symptoms in females often
met by Gratiola. i

Head. — Sick headache. Rush of blood with vanish-
ing of sight. Sensation as if brain was contracting and
head became smaller. Tightness in forehead, with
wrinkles in skin. Eyes dry, burn. Myopia.

Stomach. — Vertigo during and after meals; hunger
and feeling of emptiness after meals. Dyspepsia, with
much distention of the stomach. Cramps and _ colic
after supper and during night, with swelling of abdo-
men and constipation. Dysphagia for liquids.

Stool. -— Diarrhoea; green, frothy water, followed by
anal burning, forcibly evacuated without pain. Consti-
pation, with gouty acidity. “ Hemorrhoids, with hypo-
chondriasis. Rectum constricted.

Sleep. — Insomnia.

Female, —- Nymphomania. Menses too profuse, pre-
mature, and too long.

Modalities. — Worse, drinking too much water.

Relationship. — Compare: Dig., Euph.; Tab.; Cham.;
Ammon, pic.

Dose. — Second to third potency.

GRINDELIA
(Rosin-wood)

Both Grindelia robusta and Grindelia squarrosa have
been used for the symptoms here recorded. There
is practically no difference in their action, although
the G. Squarrosa is credited with more splenic symp-
toms, dull pains and fullness in left hypochondrium ;
GRINDELIA 363

gastric pains associated with splenic congestion. In-
duces paralysis, beginning in extremities. Its action
is shown on the heart first quickening, then retard-
ing it.

Produces a paresis of the pneumo-gastric, inter-
fering with respiration. Smothering after falling asleep
Asthmatic conditions, Cheyne-Stokes respiration, and
chronic bronchitis, call for it. Raises the blood pres-
sure. Nausea and retching of gastric ulcer. Sugar in
urine. An effective antidote to Rhus-poisoning, locally
and internally; also for burns, blisters, vaginal catarrh
and herpes zoster. Hyperchlorhydria when attended
with asthmatic and other neurotic symptoms. Hyper-
zmia of gastric mucous membrane with difficult res-
piration.

Head. — Feels full, as from quinine. Pain in eyeballs,
running back to brain; werse, moving eyes. Pupils
dilated. Purulent ophthalmia and iritis.

Respiratory. — An efficacious remedy for wheezing
and oppression in bronchitic patients. The sibilant rales
are disseminated with foamy mucus, very difficult to
detach. Acts on the pulmonary circulation. Asthma,
with profuse tenacious expectoration, which relieves.
Stops breathing when falling aslecp; wakes with a
start, and gasps for breath. Must sit up to breathe.
Cannot breathe when lying down, Pertussis, with pro-
fuse mucus secretion. . [Coccus.] Bronchorrhcea, with
tough, whitish, mucus expectoration, Sibilant rales.
Weak heart and respiration. Cannot breathe lying
down.

Spleen.— Cutting pain in region of spleen, ex-
tending to hips. Spleen a [Ceanoth., Carduus.]

Skin. — Rash, like roseola, with severe burning and
itching. Vesicular and papular eruptions. Herpes zos-
364 GRINDELIA—GUACO

ter. Itching and burning. Poison oak. Ulcers, with
swollen, purplish skin.

Relationship. — Compare: Tart-emet. Eriodictyon;
Lach.; Sanguinar.

Dose. — Tincture, to twelfth potency.

GUACO
(Mikania, Climbing Hemp Weed)

Acts on nervous system and female organs. Antidote
to bites of scorpions and serpents. [Golondrina.]
Cholera. Bulbar paralysis. Syphilis. Cancer. Deaf-
ness—tongue heavy and difficult to move. Spinal
irritation. Spinal symptoms most marked and vérified.
Beer drinkers threatened with apoplexy.

Headache, red face. Heaviness and difficulty in mov-
ing tongue.

Throat. — Larnyx and trachea constricted; difficult
deglutition. Tongue feels heavy, difficult to move.

Female. — Leucorrheea copious, corroding, putrid,
debilitating. Itching and smarting at night, as if fire
were running out of parts.

Urine. — Increased, cloudy, phosphatic. Pain over
region of bladder.

Back. — Pain between scapulx, extending to fore-
arm. Burning in nape of shoulders. Pain along spine;
worse, bending. Weariness through hips and lumbar
region.

Extremities. — Pain in deltoid, shoulders, elbows,
arms, and fingers. Pain about hip-joint. Legs heavy.
Pain in ankle-joints and soles. Paralysis of lower
extremitics.

Modalities. — ]¥orse, from, motion.

Relationship. —- Compare: “Oval. ac.; Lathyr.; Caust.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency. ,
GUAIACUM 365

GUAIACUM
(Resin of Lignum Vitz)

Chief action on fibrous tissue, and is especially adapted
to the arthritic diathesis, rheumatism, and_tonsillitis.
Secondary syphilis. Very valuable in acute rheuma-.
tism. Free foul secretions. Promotes suppuration of,
abscesses. Sensitiveness and aggravation from local
heat. Contraction of limbs, stiffness and immobility.

Mind. — Forgetful; thoughtless; staring. Slow to
comprehend.

Head. — Gouty and rheumatic pain in head and face,
crtendend to neck. Tearing pain in skull; worse, cold,
wet weather. Feels swollen, and blood-vessels dis-
tended. Aching in left ear. Pains often end m a
stitch, especially in head.

Eyes. — Fupils dilated. Eyelids appear too short.
Pimples around eyes. |

Stomach.— Tongue furred. Desire for apples.
Aversion to milk, Burning in stomach. Constricted
epigastric region.

Abdomen.— Much wind in bowels. Diarrhea,
cholera infantum.

Urinary. — Sharp stitches after urinating. Constant
"desire.

Respiratory. — Feels suffocated. Dry, tight cough.
Pleuritic stitches, Chest pains in articulations of ribs,
with shortness of breathing till expectoration sets in.

Female. — Ovaritis in rheumatic patients, with

irregular menstruation and dysmenorrhcea, and irritable
bladder.

Back. — Pain from rsd neck. Aching in nape.
AY vif eck and sore shouldérs. Stitches betwen scapulz
to “occiput. Contractive pain between scapula.
366 GUAIACUM — GUAREA — GYMNOCLADUS.

Extremities. — Rheumatic pain in shoulders, arms
and hands. Growing pains. [Phos. ac.] Pricking in nates.
Sciatica and lumbago. Gouty tearing, with contractions.
Immovable stiffness. Ankle pain extending up the leg,
causing lameness.~ Joints swollen, painful, and intol-
erant of pressure; can bear no heat. Stinging pain in
limbs. Arthritic lancinations followed by contraction
of limbs. A feeling of heat in the affected limbs.

Modalities. — Worse, from motion, heat, cold wet
weather; pressure, touch, from 6 p.m. to 4 a.M. Bet-
ter, external pressure.

Relationship. — Guaiacol (in the treatment of gonor-
theeal epididymitis, 2 parts to 30 vaselin,.Josally).

Antidote: Nuzx.

Compare: Merc.; Caust.; Rhus; Mezer.; Rhodod.

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth attenuation.

GUAREA
@allwood)

Eye symptems have been verified. Chemosis and
pterygium have been cured with it. Lupus of an ochre-
red color.

Eyes. — Conjunctiva inflamed, swollen. Tearing
pain in eyeballs; tension, forced-out feling. Objects
appear gray, upside down. Eye symptoms alternate with
diminished hearing.

Head.— Sensation as if brain were falling for-
wards; as from a blow on head.

Respiratory. — Cough with sweat, pain and tight-
ness of chest; larynx irritated.

Dose. — Tincture.

GYMNOCLADUS
(Americang$pffee-tree)

Sore throat, dark livid redness of faucesysandwery-
sipelatous swelling of face are most marked. Desire
366 GUAIACUM — GUAREA — GYMNOCLADUS.

Extremities. — Rheumatic pain in shoulders, arms
and hands. Growing pains. [Phos. ac.] Pricking in nates.
Sciatica and lumbago. Gouty tearing, with contractions.
Immovable stiffness. Ankle pain extending up the leg,
causing lameness.~ Joints swollen, painful, and intol-
erant of pressure; can bear no heat. Stinging pain in
limbs. Arthritic lancinations followed by contraction
of limbs. A feeling of heat in the affected limbs.

Modalities. — Worse, from motion, heat, cold wet
weather; pressure, touch, from 6 p.m. to 4 a.M. Bet-
ter, external pressure.

Relationship. — Guaiacol (in the treatment of gonor-
theeal epididymitis, 2 parts to 30 vaselin,.Josally).

Antidote: Nuzx.

Compare: Merc.; Caust.; Rhus; Mezer.; Rhodod.

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth attenuation.

GUAREA
@allwood)

Eye symptems have been verified. Chemosis and
pterygium have been cured with it. Lupus of an ochre-
red color.

Eyes. — Conjunctiva inflamed, swollen. Tearing
pain in eyeballs; tension, forced-out feling. Objects
appear gray, upside down. Eye symptoms alternate with
diminished hearing.

Head.— Sensation as if brain were falling for-
wards; as from a blow on head.

Respiratory. — Cough with sweat, pain and tight-
ness of chest; larynx irritated.

Dose. — Tincture.

GYMNOCLADUS
(Americang$pffee-tree)

Sore throat, dark livid redness of faucesysandwery-
sipelatous swelling of face are most marked. Desire
GLMNOCLADUS — HZMATOXYLON — HAMAM. VIR. 367

for heat and quiet. Headache, with bluish-white coat-
ing of tongue.

Face. — Sensation as of flies crawling over face.
Erysipelas. Great sensibility of teeth.

Throat.— Sore; dark livid redness of fauces and
tonsils. Sticking pain. Mucus in throat and hawking.
Tickling, wtih dry cough.

Relationship, -- Compare: Lachnant.; Laches.;
Ailanth.; Rhus.

Dose. — Lower attenuations.

HAEMATOXYLON
(Logwood)

Sense of constriction is characteristic. Sensation as
if a bar lay across chest. Angina pectoris.

Head.— Feels constricted; heavy, hot. Eyelids
heavy.

Stomach.— Painful digging from abdomen to
throat, causing pain in region of heart with oppres-
sion, Colic, tympanitis. Borborygmi and diarrheea.
Swollen, painful.

Chest. — Constriction, extending ‘to epigastrium.
Sensation of a bar across chest. Convulsive pain in
heart region with oppression. Great soreness in region
of heart. Palpitation. ,

Female.— Pain in hypogastrium, attended with
slimy, whitish leucorrheea. Weak feeling, with painful
bearing down sensation at menstrual period,

Relationship. Compare: Cactus; Colocy.; Naja.

Dose. — Third potency.

HAMAMELIS VIRGINICA
(Witch-hazel)
Venous congestion, hemorrhages, varicose veins, and
hemorrhoids, with bruised soreness of affected parts,
seem to be the sperial sphere of this remedy.
368 ITAMAMELIS  VIRGINICA

Head. — Feeling as of a bolt from temple to temple,
Fullness, followed by epistaxis. Eyes feel forced out.
tens absorption of intraocular hemorrhage.

Eyes. — Painful weakness; sore pain in eyes; blood-
shot appearance; inflamed vessels greatly injected. Has-
tens absorption of intraocular hemorrhage.

Nose. — Bleeding from nose profuse; flow passive,
non-coagulable. Bad odor from nose.

Throat. — Mucous membrane distended and _ bluish;
varicosis of throat.

Stomach. — Tongue feels burnt. Thirst. Blisters
on side. Hematemesis. Throbbing and pain in stomach.

Stool.— Anus feels sore and raw. Hemorrhoids,
bleeding profusely, with soreness. Dysentery. Pulsa-
tion in rectum.

Urine. — Hzematuria, with increased desire.

Female. — Ovarian congestion and neuralgia; fecl
very sore. Vicarious menstruation. Uterine hawmor-
rhage, bearing-down pain in back. Menses dark, pro-
fuse, with soreness in abdomen. Metrorrhagia, occurring
midway between menstrual periods. Vagina very tender.
Profuse leucorrhoea. Vulva itches. Milk-leg, hamor-
rhoids, and sore nipples, after confinment. Metror-
rhagia; passive flow. Vaginismus, ovaritis, soreness over
whole abdomen, Phlegmasia alba.

Male. — Pain in spermatic cord, running into testes.
Varicocele. Pain in testicles. Orchitis. Testicles en-
larged, hot, and painful. Epididymitis. .

Respiratory. — Hemoptysis; tickling cough. Chest
feels sore and constricted.

Back. — Sore pain down cervical vertebra. Severe
pain in lumbar and hypogastric region, extending down
legs.

Extremities. — Tired feeling in arms and legs. Very
HAMAMELIS VIRGINICA — HEDEOMA 369

sore muscles and joints. Varicose veins. Chilliness in
back and hips,. extending down legs.

Skin. — Bluish chilblains. Phlebitis. Purpura. Vari-
cose veins and ulcers; very sore. Burns. Ecchymosis.
Traumatic inflammations. [Arnica.]

Modalities. — Worse, warm, moist air.

Relationship. — Compare in hemorrhoids: Calc. fluor.;
Aloe; Mur, ac. in varicose veins. Mangifera indica.

Compare: Arnica; Calend.; Trillium; Beilis; Sulph.
ac.; Pulsacilla,

Antidote: Arnica.

Complementary: Ferrum.

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth attenuation. Distilled ex-
tract locally.

HEDEOMA
(Pennyroyal)

Female symptoms are most marked; usually asso-
ciated with nervous disturbances, Red sand in urine.
Pain along ureter. Flatulent colic. Antidotes effects of
Poison-oak. [Grindelia.]

Head. — Dull, heavy feeling in morning. Sore pain,
as from a cut. Weak, faint; better, lying down.

Stomach. — Gastritis. Everything taken into stomach
causes pain. Tongue coated thin white. Nausea.

Abdomen. — Distended, sore, and sensitive.

Urine. — Frequetit urging, cutting pains. Pain along
left ureter. Dragging pain from kidney to bladder.
Dull burning pain over left kidney.

Female. — Bearing-down pains, with much bach-
ache; worse, least movement. Leucorrhoea, with itching
and burning.

Extremities.— Pain in thumb-joint. Pain, coldness,
and paretic condition. Twitchings, jerkings, soreness.
370 HEDEOMA — HEKLA LAVA — HELLEBORUS

Tendo-Achilles painful, as if sprained and swollen;
walking painful. .
Relationship. — Compare: Mentha; Sepia; Lilium;
Ocimum (uric acid diathesis, pain in ureters); Leon-
urus (hemorrhages and dysentery).
Dose. — First potency.

HEKLA LAVA
(Lava Scoriz from Mt. Hecla)

Marked action upon the jaws. Of great use in ex-
ostosis, gum abscess, difficult teething. Nodosities,
caries of bone, etc. Osteitis, periostitis, osteosarcoma ;
rachitis. 7a#mors in general.

Face. — Ulceration of nasal bones. Facial neuralgia
from carious tceth. Toothache, with swelling about
jaws. Abscess of gums. Enlargement of maxillary
bone. Cervical glands enlarged and indurated.

Relationship. — Compare: Siliu; Mercur.; Phos.;
Conchiolinum — Mother of pearl (diaphysis of bone af-
fected; parts extremely sensitive to touch).

Amphisbena — Snail-like lizard (great affinity for the
jaw bones, worse by air and dampness).

Slag — (Great itching of parts).

Dose. — Lower triturations.

HELLEBORUS
(Snow-rose)

Produces a condition of sensorial depression. Sees,
hears, tastes imperfectly, and general muscular weak-
ness, which may go on to complete paralysis, accom-
panied by dropsical effusions. Hence, a remedy in low
states of vitality and serious disease. Characteristic ag-
gravation from 4 to 8 p.m. [Lycop.] State of ef-
fusion’ in hydrocephalus. Mania of a melancholy type.
HELLEBORUS 371

Mind. — Slow in answering. Thoughtless; staring.
Involuntary sighing. Complete unconsciousness. Picks
lips and clothes.

Head. — Forehead wrinkled in folds. Cold sweat.
Stupefying headache. Ffolls head day and night; ; moan-
ing, sudden screams. Borcs head into pillow; beats it
with hands. Dull! pain in occiput, with sensation of
water swashing inside. Headache culminates in vomit-
ing.

Eyes. —- Eyeballs turn upwards; squinting, vacant look.
Pupils dilated. Eyes wide open, sunken. Night blind-
ness,

Nose. — Dirty, dry nostrils. Rubs nose. Smell
dimmished. Nose pointed.

Face. — Pale, sunken. Cold sweat. Wrinkled. Neu-
ralgia on left side; parts so tender he cannot chew.

Mouth. — Horrible smell from mouth. Lips dry and
cracked. Tongue red and dry. Falling of lower jaw.
Meaningless picking of lips. Grinding of teeth. “Chew-
ing motion. Greedily swallows cold water, though ua-
conscious. Child nurses greedily, with disgust for food.
Ptyalism, with sore corners of mouth.

Abdomen. — Gurgling, as if bowels were full of wa-
ter. Swollen, painful to touch,

Stool. — Jelly-like, white mucus ;‘ involuntary

Urine, — Suppressed; scanty, dark; coffee-grounds
sediment. Frequent urging. Child cannot urinate.
Bladder overdistended. .

Respiratory. — Frequent sighing. Respiration irregu-
lar. Chest constricted; gasps for breath. Hydrothorax.
[Merc, sulph.]

Extremities. — Automatic motion of one arm and leg.
Limhs heavy and painful. Stretching of limbs. Thumb
372 HELLEBORUS — HELIANTHUS — HELODERMA

drawn into palm. [Cupr.] Vesicular eruption between
fingers and toes.

Sleep.— Sudden screams in sleep. Soporous sleep.
Cri encephalique. Cannot be fully aroused.

Skin. — Pale, dropsical, itching. Livid spots on skin.
Sudden, watery, swelling of skin. Falling off of hair
and nails,

Modalities. — Worse, from evening until morning,
from uncovering.

Relationship. — Hellebor. fetidus or, Polymnia
(splenic affections, chronic ague cake; hypertrophied
uterus; glandular enlargements; hair and nails falling
off ; skin peeling) ; Hellebor. orientalis (salivation).

Antidote: Camphor; Cinch.

Compare: Threatening effusion; Tuberc.; Apis;
Zinc.; Opium; Cinch.; Cicuta; Iodoform.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

HELIANTHUS
(Sunflower)

Old cases of intermittent fever. Vomiting, black
stools, congestion and dryness of mouth and pharynx,
redness and heat of skin. Symptoms aggravated by
heat and relieved by vomiting. Spleen remedy. Marked
effects on stomach, with nausea and vomiting. Stools
black. [Leptandra.] Dry tnouth. Externally, as a
vulnerant like Arnica and Calendula.

HELODERMA
(Gila Monster)

The result of the bite is a benumbing paralysis like
paralysis agitans or locomotor ataxia. There is no
tetanic phase —a condition almost reverse in objective
symptoms to Hydrocy. acid or Strychnia. Homeo-
HELODERMA 373

pathically, it is indicated in many forms of disease char-
acterized by great coldness—-“arctic” coldness. Cold
waves from occiput to feet or ascending.

Head.— Very depressed. Sensation as if would fall
to right side. Cold band around head; cold pressure
within the skull. Eyelids heavy. Pain beginning in
right ear, extending round back of head to left ear.

Face. -——- Coid crawling feeling, as if facial muscles
were tight. °

Mouth. — Tongue cold, tender, and dry. Very thirsty.
Swallowing difficult. Breath cold.

Chest. — Cold feeling in lungs and in heart. Slow
labored thumping of heart.

Back.—Coldness across scapule. Burning along
spine.

Extremities. — Numbness and trembling. Coldness.
Sensation as if walking on sponge, and as if feet were
swollen. Staggering gait. Cock’s gait. When walk-
ing, lifts feet higher than usual, and puts down heel
hard. Feet cold as ice or burn. Stretching relieves
pains in muscles and limbs.

Fever, — Internal coldness, as if frozen to death. Cold
rings around body. Cold waves. [Abies c.; Acon.]
Cold spots. Arctic coldness. Temperature subnormal
—96°. [Camph.]

Relationship.— Compare: Lacerta—Green Lizard
(skin eruptions. Vesicles under tongue. Increased
mental acumen. Difficult swallowing. Constant ac-
cumulation of saliva in the mouth. Nausea; violent
pressure in stomach). Camphor,; Lachesis,

Dose. — Thirtieth potency.
374 HELONIAS

HELONIAS
(Blazing Star)

Sensation of weakness, dragging and weight in the
sacrum and pelvis, with great languor and prostration,
are excellent indications for this remedy. There is a
sensitiveness expressed as a consciousness of a womb.
Tired, backachy females. The weakness shows itself
also in a tendency to prolapse and other malposition of
the womb.” The menses are often suppressed and the
kidneys congested. It seems as if the monthly conges-
tion, instead of venting itself as it should through the
uterine vessels, had extended to the kidneys. With it
all, there is a profound melancholia. Patient must be
doing something to engage the mind. Remember it, for
women with prolapsus from atony, enervated by indo-
lence and luxury (better when attention is engaged —
hence when the doctor comes), or for those worn out
with hard work; tired, strained muscles burn and ache;
sleepless. Diabetes mellitus, and insipidus. Constant
aching and tenderness over kidneys.

Mind. — Profound melancholy. Patient is better when
attention is engaged, when doing something. Irritable;
cannot endure the least contradiction.

Head. — Burning sensation on top. Headache, better
mental exertion.

Back.— Pain and weight in back; tired and weak.
Aching and burning across the lurhbar region; can trace
outlines of kidneys by constant burning. Boring pain

in lumbar region, extending down legs. Great languor,
better exercising.

Female. — Dragging in sacral region, with prolapse,
especially after a miscarriage. Pruritus vuive. Back-
ache after miscarriage. [Kali c.] Weight and sore-
HELONIAS — HEPAR SULPHURIS CALCAREUM 375

ness in womb; conscious of womb. Menscs too fre-
quent, too profuse, Leucorrhuea. Breasts swollen, nip-
ples painful and tender. Parts hot, red, swollen; burn
and itch terribly. Albuminuria during pregnancy. De-
bility attending the menopause.

Urine. — Albuminous, phosphatic; profuse and clear,
saccharine.. Diabetes.

Modalities. — Briter, when doing something (mental
diversion). Worse, motion, touch.

Relationship. — Compare: sJgrimonia (painful kid-
neys, impaired digestion and menstrual difficulties;
Bronchorrheea and catarrh of bladder. Tincture !-10
gtt.). Aletris; Lilium; Puls.; Senecio; Stannum.,

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth attenuation.

HEPAR SULPHURIS CALCAREUM
(Hahnemann’s Caicium Sulphide)

Suits especially scrofulous and lymphatic constitu-
tions who are inclined to have eruptions and glandular
swellings. Unhealthy skin. Blondes with sluggish char-
acter and weak muscles. Great sensitivencss to all im-
pressions. Sweating patient pulling blanket around him.
Locally, it has special affinity to the respiratory mucous
membrane, producing croupous catarrhal inflammation,
profuse secretion; also easy perspiration. After abuse
of Mercury. The tendency to suppuration is most
marked, and has heen a strong guiding symptom in
practice. Chilliness, /hypersensitiyveness, splinter-like
pains, craving for sour and strong things are very char-
acteristic. Fecling as if wind were blowing on .some
fart. The side of the body on which he lies at night
becomes gradually insufferably painful; he must turn.
Pellagra (material doses required). Syphilis after anti-
specific gross medication.
376 HEPAR SULPHURIS CALCAREUM

Mind. — Anguish in the evening and night, with
thoughts of suicide. The slightest cause irritates him.
Dejected and sad. Ferocious. Hasty speech.

Head. — Vertigo and headache, when shaking the head
or riding. Boring pain in the right temple and in root
of nose every morning. Scalp sensitive and sore. Hu-
mid scald-head itching and burning. Cold sweat on
head.

Eyes. — Ulcers on cornea. Iritis, with pus in anterior
chamber; purulent conjunctivitis, with marked chemo-
sis, profuse discharge, great sensitiveness to touch and
air. Eyes and lids red and inflamed. Pain in the eyes,
as if pulled back into the head. Boring pain in upper
bones of the orbits. Eyeballs sore to touch. Objects
appear red and too large. Vision obscured by reading;
field reduced one-half. Bright circles before eyes. Hy-
popion.

Ears. — Scurfs on and behind the ears. Discharge of
fetid pus from the ears. Whizziug and throbbing in
ears, with hardness of hearing. Deafness after scarlet
fever. Pustules in auditory canal and auricle. Mas-
toiditis.

Nose. — Sore, ulcerated. Soreness of nostrils, with
catarrhal troubles. Sneezes every time he goes into a
cold, dry wind, with running from nose, later, thick, of-
fensive discharge. Stopped up every time he goes out
into cold air, Smell like old cheese. Hay-fever. (Hepar
1x will often start secretions and profuse drainage in
stuffy colds.)

Face. — Yellowish complexion. Middle of lower lip
cracked. Vesicular erysipelas, with pricking in parts.
Neuralgia of right side, extending in streak into tem-
ple, ear, alx, and lip. Pains in bones of face, espe-
cially when heing touched. Ulcers in corners of mouth.
Shooting in jaw on cpening mouth,
376 HEPAR SULPHURIS CALCAREUM

Mind. — Anguish in the evening and night, with
thoughts of suicide. The slightest cause irritates him.
Dejected and sad. Ferocious. Hasty speech.

Head. — Vertigo and headache, when shaking the head
or riding. Boring pain in the right temple and in root
of nose every morning. Scalp sensitive and sore. Hu-
mid scald-head itching and burning. Cold sweat on
head.

Eyes. — Ulcers on cornea. Iritis, with pus in anterior
chamber; purulent conjunctivitis, with marked chemo-
sis, profuse discharge, great sensitiveness to touch and
air. Eyes and lids red and inflamed. Pain in the eyes,
as if pulled back into the head. Boring pain in upper
bones of the orbits. Eyeballs sore to touch. Objects
appear red and too large. Vision obscured by reading;
field reduced one-half. Bright circles before eyes. Hy-
popion.

Ears. — Scurfs on and behind the ears. Discharge of
fetid pus from the ears. Whizziug and throbbing in
ears, with hardness of hearing. Deafness after scarlet
fever. Pustules in auditory canal and auricle. Mas-
toiditis.

Nose. — Sore, ulcerated. Soreness of nostrils, with
catarrhal troubles. Sneezes every time he goes into a
cold, dry wind, with running from nose, later, thick, of-
fensive discharge. Stopped up every time he goes out
into cold air, Smell like old cheese. Hay-fever. (Hepar
1x will often start secretions and profuse drainage in
stuffy colds.)

Face. — Yellowish complexion. Middle of lower lip
cracked. Vesicular erysipelas, with pricking in parts.
Neuralgia of right side, extending in streak into tem-
ple, ear, alx, and lip. Pains in bones of face, espe-
cially when heing touched. Ulcers in corners of mouth.
Shooting in jaw on cpening mouth,
HEPAR SULPHURIS CALCAREUM 377

Mouth. — Ptyalism. Gums and mouth painful to touch
and bleed readily.

Throat. — When swallowing, sensation as if a plug
and of a splinicr in throat. Quinsy, with tmpending sup-
puration. Stitches in throat extending to the ear when
swallowing. Hawking up of mucus.

Stomach. — Longing for acids, wine, and strong-tast-
ing food, Aversion to fat food. Frequent eructations,
without taste or smell, Distention of stomach, com-
pelling one to loosen the clothing. Burning in stomach.
Heaviness and pressure in stomach after a slight meal.

Abdomen. — Stitching in region of liver when walk-
ing, coughing, breathing, or touching it. [Bry.; Merc.]
Hepatitis, hepatic abscess; abdomen distended, tense;
chronic abdominal! affections.

Stool. — Clay-colored and soft. Sour, white, undi-
gested, fetid. Loss of power to expel even a soft stool.

Urine. — Voided slowly, without force — drops verti-
cally, bladder weak. Seems as if some always remained.
Greasy pellicle on urine. Bladder difficulties of old
men. [Phos.; Sulph.; Copaiva.]

Male. — Herpes, sensitive, bleed easily. Ulcers exter-
nally on prepuce similar to chancre. [Nitr. acid.} Ex-
citement and emission without amorous fancies. Itch-
ing of glans, frenum, and scrotum, Suppurating in-
guinal glands. Figwarts of offensive odor. Humid
soreness on genitals and between scrotum and thigh.
Obstinate gonorrhcea “does not get well.”

Female. — Discharge of blood from uterus. Itching
of pudenda, worse during menses. Menses late and
scanty. Abscesses of iabie with greul sensitiveness.
Extremely offensive leucorrhcea. Smells like old cheese.
[Sanicula.] Profuse perspiration at the climacteric.
[Tilia; Jaborandi.}
378 HEPAR SULPHURIS CALCAREUM

- Respiratory. — Luses voice and coughs when exposed

to dry, cold wind. Hoarseness, with loss of voice.
Cough troublesome when walking. Dry, hoarse cough.
Cough excited whenever any part of the body gets cold
or uncovered, or from eating anything cold. Croup
with loose, rattling cough; worse in morning. Choking
cough, Rattling, croaking cough; suffocative attacks;
has to rise up and bend head backwards. Anxious,
wheezing, moist breathing, asthma worse in dry cold
air; better in damp. Palpitation of heart.

Extremities. — Finger-joints swollen; tendency te
easy dislocation. Nail of great toe painful on slight
pressure.

Skin. — Abscesses; suppurating glands are very sensi-
tive. Papules prone to suppurate and extend. Acne in
youth, Suppurate with prickly pain. Easily Meed.
Angioneurotic oedema. Unhealthy skin; every little
injury suppurates. Chapped skin, with deep cracks on
hands and feet. Ulcers, with bioody suppuration, smell-
ing like old cheese. Ulcers very sensitive to contact,
burning. stinging, easily bleeding. Sweats day and night
without relief. “Cold-sores” very sensitive. Cannot
bear to be uncovered; wants to be wrapped up warmly.
Sticking or pricking in afflicted parts. Putrid ulcers,
surrounded by little pimples. Great sensitiveness to
slightest touch. Chronic urticaria. Small-pox. Herpes
circinatus. Constant offensive exhalation from the body.

Fever. — Chilly in open air or from slightest draught.
Dry heat at night. Profuse sweat; sour, sticky, offen-
sive.

Modalities. — H'crse, from dry cold winds; cool air;
slightest draught; from Mercury, touch; lying on pain-
ful side. Better, in damp weather, from wrapping head
up, from warmth, after eating.
HEPAR SUL, CAL, — HEPATICA — HIPFPUMANES 379

Relationship. — Antidotes: Bellad.; Cham.; Sil.

Compare: Acon.; Spongia; Staphis.; Silica; Sulph.;
Cale. sulph.; Myristica. Hepar antidotes had effects
from Mercury, Iodine, Potash, Cod-liver Oil. Removes
the weakening effects of ether.

Dose. — First to 200th. The higher potencies may
abort suppuration, the lower promote it. If it is neces-
sary to hasten it, give 2x.

HEPATICA
(Liver-Wort)

Pharyngeal catarrh, with profuse, serous sputa and
hoarseness. Tickling and irritation of the throat.
Scrapurg and rough sensation. Induces free and easy
expectoration. Viscid, thick, tenacious phlegm causes
continued hawking. Soreness at the nostrils. Sensa-
tion about epiglottis as if particles of food remained.
Sputa swect, profuse, creamy.

Dose. — Second potency.

HIPPOMANES
(A Meconium Deposit out of the Amniotic Fluid
taken from the Colt)

The old famous Aphrodisiacum of the Greek authors.

Stomach, — /cy coldness in stomach.

Male. — Sexual desire increased. Prostatitis. Draw-
ing pain in testicles, ,

Extremities. — Violent pain in wrist. Paralysis of
wrists. Sprained sensation in wrist. Great weakness
of hands and fingers. Weakness in joints of feet, knee,
and soles. Chorea. Much weakness after growing too
fast.

Relationship. — Compare: Caustic.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.
380 HIPPOZ-ENIUM — HOMARUS

HIPPOZAENIUM
(Glanderine-mallein — Farcine)

This powerful nosode promises useful service in the
treatment of ozena, scrofulous swellings, pyemia, ery-
sipelas. Chronic rhinits; saneous secreation.

Nose. — Red, swollen. Catarrh, osena, ulceration.
Discharge acrid, corroding, bloody, offensive. Tubercles
on ale nasi. Papules and ulceration in frontal sinus
and pharynx.

Face. — All glands swollen; painful; form abscesses.

Respiratory. — Hoarseness. Bronchial asthma. Noisy
breathing ; short, irregular. Cough, with dyspepsia. Ex-
cessive secretion. Suffocation imminent. Bronchitis in
the aged. Tuberculosis.

Skin. — Lymphatic swellings. Articular non-fluctuat-
ing swellings. Nodules in arm. Malignant erysipelas.
Pustules and abscesses. Ulcers. Rupia. Eczema.

Relationship. — Compare: Muco-toxin (Cahis’ prep-
aration with the micrococcus catarrhalis, Friedlander’s
Bacillus of Pneumonia and the micrococcus tetragenius
— for acute and chronic mucus catarrhs in children and
old people.) ; Aur.; Kali bich.; Psor.; Bacill.

Dose. — Thirtieth potency.

HOMARUS
(Digestive Fluid of Live Lobster)

Dyspepsia, sore throat, and headache seems to be a
combination that may be controlled by this remedy.
Frontal and temporal pain chiefly, with soreness in eyes.
Throat sore, raw, burns, with tough mucus. Pain in
stomach and abdomen, better after eating. Belching.
Chilliness and pain all over. Itching of skin.

Modalities. — Worse, from milk, after sleep. Better,
from motion, after eating.
HOMARUS — HYDRANGEA — HYDRASTIS 381

Relationship. — Compare: Sepia; Asterias; Astacus;
Ethusa.
Dose. — Sixth potency.

HYDRANGEA
(Seven-barks)

A remedy for gravel, profuse deposit of white amor-
phous salts in urine. Calculus, renal colic, bloody urine.
Acts on ureter. Pain in lumbar region. Dizziness. Op-
pression of chest.

Urine. —- Burning in urethra and frequent desire.
Urine hard to start. Heavy deposit of mucus. Sharp
pain in loins, especially left. Great thirst, with ab-
dominal symptoms and enlaryed prostate. [Ferr. pic.:
Sabal.| Gravelly deposits. Spasmodic stricture. Pro-
fuse deposit of white amorphous salts.

Relationship. —- Compare: Lycopod.; Chimaphil.; Ber-
beris; Pareira; Uva; Sabal; Geum — Water-Avens —
(affections of bladder, with pains in penis; worse, eat-
ing; relaxed mucous membranes, with excessive and
depraved secretions; imperfect digestion and assimila-
tion.)

Dose. — Tincture.

HYDRASTIS
(Golden Seal)

Acts especially on mucous membranes, relaxing them
and producing a thick, yellowish, ropy secretion. The
catarrh may be anywhere, —throat, stomach, uterus,
urethra,—-it is always characterized by this peculiar
mucous discharge. Hydrastis is especially active in
old, easily-tired people, cachectic individuals, with great
382 HYDRASTIS

debility. Weak muscular power, poor digestion and ob-
stinate constipation. Lumbago. Emaciation and pros-
tration. Its action on the liver is marked, and suits
especially scrofulous constitutions. Cancer and pre-
cancerous state, before ulceration, when pain is prin-
cipal symptom. Goitre of puberty and pregnancy.
Small-pox internally and locally.

Mind. — Depressed; sure of death, and desires it.

Head. — Dull, pressing frontal pain, especially con-
nected with constipation. Myalgic pain in scalp and
muscles of neck. [Cimicif.] Eczema on forehead along
line of hair. Sinusitus, after coryza.

Ears. — Roaring. Muco-purulent discharge. Deaf-
ness. Eustachian catarrh, with high-pitched voice.

Nose. — Thick, tenacious secretion from posterior
nares to throat, Watery, excoriating discharge. Ozzena,
with ulceration of septum.

Mouth. — Peppery taste. Tongue white, swollen, large,
flabby, slimy; shows imprint of tecth [Merc.]; as if
scalded: stomatitis,

Throat. — Follicular pharyngitis. Raw, smarting, ex-
coriating sensation. Hawking of yellow, tenacious mu-
cus. [Kali bich.] Child is aroused suddenly from
sleep by this tenacious post-nasal dropping. Goitre of
puberty and pregnancy.

Stomach. — Sore feeling in stomach more or less con-
stant. Weak digestion. Bitter taste. Pain as from a
hard-cornered substance. Gone feeling. Pulsation in
epigastrium. Cannot eat bread or vegetables. Atonic
dyspepsia. Ulcers and cancer. Gastritis.

Abdomen. — Gastro-duodenal catarrh. Liver torpid.
tender. Jaundice. Gallstones. Dull dragging in right
groin with cutting sensation into right testicle.
HYDRASTIS 383

Back. — Dull, heavy, dragging pain and stiffness, par-
ticularly across lumbar region, must use arms in raising
himself from seat.

Rectum. — Prolapsed; anus fissured. Cunstipation,
with sinking feeling in stomach, and dull headache.
During stool, smarting pain in rectum. After stool,
long-lasting pain. [Nzit. ac.] Hemorrhoids; even a
light flow exhausts. Contraction and spasm.

Urine. — Gleety discharge. Urine smells decomposed.

Male. — Gonorrhaa, second stage; discharge thick and
yellow,

Female. — Erosion and excoriation of ceivix. Leucor-
rhoca, worse after menses [Bov.; Cale. c.]; acrid and
corroding, shreddy, tenacious. Menorrhagia. Pruritus
vulve, with profuse leucorrhea. ([Calc. c.; Kreos.;
Sch.) Sexual excitement. Tumor of breast; nipple
retracted,

Respiratory. — Chest raw, sore, burning. Dry, harsh
cough. Bronchial catarrh, later stages. Bronchitis in
old, exhausted persons, with thick, yellow, tenacious
expectoration. Frequent fainty spells, with cold sweat
all over.

Skin, — Eruption like variola. Lupus; ulcers, cancer-
ous formations. General tendency to profuse perspira-
tion and unhealthy skin. [Hcpar.]

Relationship. — Antidote: Sulph.

Useful after too much Chlorate of Potash for sore
throat.

Compare: Xanthorrhiza apifolia; Kali bich.; Conium;
Ars. iod.; Phytol.; Galium (cancer —nodulated tumor
of the tongue); Asterias; Stann.; Puls. Also Man-
sanita (diarrhoea, gonorrhcea, gleet, leucorrhcea, catar-
rhal conditions). Hydrastinum muriaticum — Muriate of
Hydrastia. (Locally, about one ounce of water, in aph-
384 HYDRASTIS — HYDROCOTYLE

thous sore mouth, ulcers, ulcerated sore throat, ozzna,
etc. Internally, third dec. trit., in dilatation of the
stomach, and chronic digestive disorders). Hydrastin
sulph. 1x (hemorrhage of bowels in typhoid).

Hydrastinimum —a modification of Hydrastinum. (A
remedy for hemorrhages, fibroid tumors. Metrorrhagia.
Third dec. trit.)

Marrubium — Hoarhound — (a stimulant to mucous
membranes, especially laryngeal and bronchial; chronic
bronchitis, dyspepsia, and hepatic disorders; colds and
coughs).

Dose. — Tincture, to thirtieth attenuation. Locally
colorless Hydrastis, mother tincture, or fluid extract.

HYDROCOTYLE
(Indian Pennywort)

Has considerable reputation in leprosy and lupus,
when there is no ulceration. The skin symptoms are
vety important. Of great use in ulceration of womb.
Difficulty in maintaining the upright posture. Very co-
pious perspiration. Pains of cervical cancer.

Face. — Pain in left cheek-bones, and about orbits.

Female. — Pruritus of vagina, Inflammation of neck
of bladder. Heat within vagina. Granular ulceration of
womb, Profuse leucorrheea. Dull pain in ovarian re-
gion. Cervical redness.

Skin.— Dry eruptions. Great thickening of epider-
moid layer and exfoliation of scales. Psoriasis gyrate,
on trunk and extremities, palins and soles, Pustules on
chest. Circular spots, with scaly edges. Intolerable
itching, especially of soles, Profuse sweat. Syphilitic

\ piections. Acne. Leprosy. Elephantiasis [Ars.]
HYDROCOTYLE — HYDROCYANIC ACID 385

Relationship. — Compare: Eleis—-South American
Palm — (scleroderma, elephantiasis, leprosy, skin thick-
ened, itching and hardened. Anesthesia). Hura;
Trychnos Gaultheriana (bites of serpents, ulcers and
cutaneous affections generally); Hoang-Nan (removes
fetor and haemorrhage in cancer; follows Arsenic; re-
vives the healing process. Leprosy). Chaulomoogra oil;
Hydrast.; Arsenic; Aurum; Sepia.

Dose. — Sixth potency.

HYDROCYANIC ACiD
(Prussic Acid)

Convulsions and paralysis express the action of this
remedy. Spasmodic constriction in larynx, feeling of
suffocation, pain and tightness in chest, palpitation;
pulse weak, irregular. Singing sensation at the epigas-
trium, Hysterica) and epileptic convulsions. Cyanosis.
Collapse, due to some pulmonary condition not a car-
diac collapse. Catalepsy Cholera. Stage of collapse.
[Ars.; Verat.]

Mind. — Unconscious. Wild delirium. Fear of imagi-
nary troubles. Fears everything —horses, wagons,
houses falling, etc.

Head. — Violent stupefying headache. Brain feels on
fire. Pupils motionless or dilated. Supra-orbital neu-
ralgia, with flushing on same side of face.

Face.— Jaws clenched in rigid spasm. Froths at
mouth. Pale, bluish lips.

Stomach. — Tongue culd. Drink rumbles through
throat and stomach. Gastralgia; worse when stomach
is empty. Great sinking at pit of stomach. Pulsative
pain in precordial region,
386 HYDROCYANIC ACID — HYDROPHOBINUM

Respiratory. — Noisy and agitated breathing. Dry,
spasmodic, suffocative cough. Asthma, with contrac-
tion of throat. Whooping-cough. Paralysis of lungs.
[Aspidos.] Marked cyanosis; venously congested lung.

Heart. — Violent palpitation. Pulse, weak, irregular.
Cold extremities. Torturing pain in chest. Angina pec-
toris. [Spigel.; Oral. ac.]

Sleep. — Yawning, with shivering. Irresistible drowsi-
ness. Vivid, incoherent dreams.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Ammon.; Camph.; Opium.

Compare: Cicuia; Ginanthe; Camph.; Lauroc,

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

HYDROPHOBINUM
(Lyssin -~ Saliva of Rabid Dog)

Affects principally the nervous system; aching in
bones. Complaints from ahnarmal sexual desire. Con-
vulsions brought on by dazzling light or sight of running
water.

Mind. — Lyssophobia; fear of becoming mad. Emo-
tion and bad news aggravate; also, thinking of fluids.
Hypersensitiveness of all senses.

Mouth. — Constant spitting ; saliva tough, viscid. Sore
throat; constant desire to swallow, which is difficult;
gagging when swallowing water. Froths at mouth.

Male. — Lascivious; priapism, with frequent emissions.
No emission during coition. Atrophy of testicles. Com-
plaints from abnormal sexual desire.

Female, — Uterine sensitiveness; conscious of womb
[Helon.j Feels prolapsed. Vagina sensitive, rendering
coition painful. [Berberis.] Uterine displacements.

Respiratory. — Voice altered in tone. Breathing held
for.a time. Spasmodic contraction of respiratory mus-
cles.
386 HYDROCYANIC ACID — HYDROPHOBINUM

Respiratory. — Noisy and agitated breathing. Dry,
spasmodic, suffocative cough. Asthma, with contrac-
tion of throat. Whooping-cough. Paralysis of lungs.
[Aspidos.] Marked cyanosis; venously congested lung.

Heart. — Violent palpitation. Pulse, weak, irregular.
Cold extremities. Torturing pain in chest. Angina pec-
toris. [Spigel.; Oral. ac.]

Sleep. — Yawning, with shivering. Irresistible drowsi-
ness. Vivid, incoherent dreams.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Ammon.; Camph.; Opium.

Compare: Cicuia; Ginanthe; Camph.; Lauroc,

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

HYDROPHOBINUM
(Lyssin -~ Saliva of Rabid Dog)

Affects principally the nervous system; aching in
bones. Complaints from ahnarmal sexual desire. Con-
vulsions brought on by dazzling light or sight of running
water.

Mind. — Lyssophobia; fear of becoming mad. Emo-
tion and bad news aggravate; also, thinking of fluids.
Hypersensitiveness of all senses.

Mouth. — Constant spitting ; saliva tough, viscid. Sore
throat; constant desire to swallow, which is difficult;
gagging when swallowing water. Froths at mouth.

Male. — Lascivious; priapism, with frequent emissions.
No emission during coition. Atrophy of testicles. Com-
plaints from abnormal sexual desire.

Female, — Uterine sensitiveness; conscious of womb
[Helon.j Feels prolapsed. Vagina sensitive, rendering
coition painful. [Berberis.] Uterine displacements.

Respiratory. — Voice altered in tone. Breathing held
for.a time. Spasmodic contraction of respiratory mus-
cles.
HYDROPHOBINUM — HYOSCYAMUS 387

Stool. — Desire for stool on hearing or seeing running
water. Profuse, watery stools, with pain in bowels;
worse, evening. Constant desire to urinate on seeing
running water.

Modalities. — IVorse, sight or sound of running water
or pouring water, or even thinking of fluids; dazzling
or reflected light; heat of sun; stooping,

Relationship. — Compare: Nanthium spinosum (said
to he specific for hydrophobia). Canth.; Rell.; Stram.;
Lach.; Nat, mur.

Dose. — Thirtieth putency.

HYOSCYAMUS,
(Henbane)

Disturbs the nervous system profoundly. It is as if
some diabolical force tuok possession of the brain and
prevented its functions. It causes a perfect picture of
mania of a quarrelsome and obscene character. |n-
clined to be unseemly and immodest in acts, gestures
and expressions. Very talkative, and persists in strip-
ping herself, or uncovering genitals. Is jealoys, afraid
of being poisoned, etc. Its symptoms also point to weak-
ness and nacrvous agitation; hence typhoid and other
infections with coma vigil. Tremulous weakness and
twitching of tendons, ~ Subsultus tendinum. Muscular
twitchings, spasmodic affections, generally with delirium,
Non-inflammatory cerebral activity. Toxic gastritis.

Mind. —- Very suspicious Talkative, obscene, jealous.
foolish. Great hilarity; inclined to lauyh at everything.

Delirium, with attempt to run away. Low, muttering
speech; constant carphologia, deep stupor.

Head. — Feels light. Vertigo as if intoxicated. Brain
388 HYOSCYAMUS

feels loose, fluctuating. Inflammation of brain, with
unconsciousness; head is shaken to and fro.

Eyes. — Pupils dilated, sparkling, fixed. Eyes open,
but does not pay attention; downcast and dull, fixed.
Strabismus. Spasmodic closing of lids. Diplopia. Ob-
jects have colored borders,

Mouth. — Tongue dry, red, cracked, stiff and immov-
able, protruded with difficulty; spcech impaired. Foams
at mouth. Teeth covered with sordes. Lower jaw
drops.

Throat. — Stinging dryness. Constriction. Cannot
swallow liquids. Uvula elongated.

Stomach. — Hiccough, eructations empty, _ bitter.
Nausea, with vertigo. Vomiting, with convulsions;
hxematemesis; violent cramps, relieved by vomiting,
Lurning in stomach; epigastrium tender. After irritat-
ing food.

Abdomen. — Colic, as if abdomen would burst. Dis-
tention. Colic, with vomiting, belching, hiccough scream-
ing. Tympanites. Red spots on abdomen.

Stool. — Diarrhea, colicky, pains; involuntary, aggra-
vated by mental excitement or during sleep. Diarrhea
during the lying-in period. Involuntary defecation.

Urine. —Involuntary. Bladder paralyzed. Has no
will to urinate. [Cuust.] Retention of urine.

Male.—-Impotence. Lascivious; exposes his person;
plays with genitals during fever. :

Female. — Rcfore menses, hysterical spasms. Excited
sexual desire During menses, convulsive movements,
urinary flux and sweat. Lochia suppressed. Spasms of
pregnant women. Puerperal mania.
HYOSCYAMUS 389

Chest. — Suffocating fits. Spasm, forcing bending
forward. Dry, spasmodic cough at night (worse lying
down; better sitting up), from itching in the throat,
as if uvula were too long. Hzmoptysis.

Extremities. — Picking at bed-clothes; plays with
hands; reaches out for things. Epileptic attacks ending
in deep sleep. Spasms and convulsions. Cramps in
calves and toes. Child sobs and cries without waking.

Sleep. — Intense sleeplessness. Sopor, with convul-
sions. Starts up frightened. Coma vigil.

Nerves. — Great restlessness; every muscle twitches.
Will not be covered.

Modalities. — Worse, at night, during menses, after
eating, when lying down. Better, stooping.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Bell.; Camph.

Compare: Bellad.; Stram.; Agaric.; Gels.; Hyos-
cm, sulph.

ITyose. hydrobrom. — Scopolamine hydrobromide.
(Paralysis agitans; tremors of disseminated sclerosis.
Sleeplessness and nervous agitation. Dry cough in
phthisis. Third and fourth dec. trituration, Similar in
its effects to alcohol, both recent and remote. Cor-
responds to the effects of strong poisons introduced
into or generated within the body. Symptoms of
uremia and acute nervous exhaustion. A remedy for
shock. Scopola (Japanese Belladonna) — chemically
identical with Hyoscine. (Joyous delirium, licking of
lips and smacking of mouth; sleepless; tries to get out
of bed; sees cats, picks imaginary hairs, warms hands.
before imaginary fire, etc.)

Dose. — Sixth. to 200th potency.
390 HYPERICUM

HYPERICUM
(St. John’s-wort)

The great remedy for injuries to nerves, especially of
fingers, toes and nails. Crushed fingers, especially tips.
Excessive painfulness is a guiding symptom to its use.
Prevents lockjaw. Punctured wounds. Relieves pain
after operations. Spasms after every injury. Has an
important action on the rectum; bemorrhoids. Coccy-
dynia, Spasmodic asthmatic attacks with changes of
weather or before storms, better by copious expecto-
ration.

Mind. — Feels as if lifted high in air, or anxiety lest
he fall from heights. Mistakes in writing. Effects of
shock,

Head. — Heavy; feels as if touched by an icy cold
hand. Throbbing in vertex; worse in close room. Right
side of face aches. Brain-fag and neurasthenia. [Pic-
ric acid], with saducss. Jlead fecls longer — elongated
to a point. In fractured skull, bone splinters. Brain
feels alive. Pains in eyes and ears,

Stomach.— Craving for wine. Thirst; nausea.
Tongue coated white at base, tip clean. Feeling of lump
in stomach. [Abies nig.; Bry.]

Rectum. — Urging, dry, dull, pressing pain. Hemor-
rhoids, with pain, bleeding, and tenderness.

Back. —- Pain in nape of neck. Pressure over sacrum.
Spinal concussion.

Extremities. — Darting pain in shoulders. Pressure
along ulnar side of arm. Cramp in calves. Pain in
toes and fingers, especially in tips. Crawling in hand
and feet. Lancinating pain in upper and lower limbs.
Neuritis, with tingling, burning pain, numbness and
flossy skin. Joints feel bruised. Hysterical joints.
Tetanus. [Physost.; Kali brom.]
HYPERICUM — IBERIS 391

Skin. — Hyperidrosis, sweating of scalp, worse in
morning after sleep; falling of hair from injury; ec-
zema of hands and face, intense itching, eruption seems
to be under the skin. Herpes zoster.

Modalities. —- Worse, in a fog; in close room; least
exposure. Better, bending head backward.

Relationship. — Compare: Arnica; Staphis.; Calend.;
Ruta; Cof.

Antidotes: Arc.; Cham.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

IBERIS
(Bitter Candytuft)

State of nervous excitement. Has marked action
upou the heart. Possesses great efficacy in cardiac dis-
eases. Controls vascular excitement in hypertrophy with
thickening of the heart’s walls. Cardiac debility after
influenza. Liver region fuli and painful. White stools.

Mind. — Sad and sighing; fearful and trembling. Ir-
ritable.

Head.— Vertigo and pains around heart. Constant
hawking of thick, stringy mucus until after a meal.
Hot, flushed face. Vertigo, as if occiput were turning
around, eyes feel forced outwards.

Heart. — Conscious of heart’s action. On turning on
left side, stitching pain as 1f needles through ventricles
felt at each systole. Palpitation, with vertigo and chok-
ing in throat. Stitching pains in cardiac region. Pulse
full, irregular, intermittent. Worse, least motion and
in warm room. Sensation of weight and pressure, with
occasional sharp, stinging pains. Dropsy, with enlarged
heart. Violent palpitation induced by slightest exertion,
or by laughing, or coughing. Darting pains through
heart. Cardiac dyspne. Dilation of heart. Wakes
392 IBERIS—ICHTH YOLUM

with palpitation about 2 a, M. Throat and trachea fills
up with mucus. Cough causes redness of face. Tachy-
cardia,
Extremities. — Numbness and tingling in left hand
and arm. Whole body sore, lame and trembling.
Modalities. — Worse, lying down; on left side; mo-
tion, exertion; warm room.
Relationship. — Compare: Cact.; Dig.; Amyl.; Bell.
Dose. — Tincture and first potency.

ICHTHYOLUM
(A Combination of Sulphonated Hydrocarbons; a
Fossil Product of Complex Structure found in Ty-
rol, supposed to be Fish Deposits)

Its action on skin, mucous membranes, and kidneys
is prompt and useful. It is strongly antiparasitic;
redness, pain and inflammation; decreases tension. Ex-
cellent in winter coughs of old people. Chronic rheu-
matism. Uric acid diathesis. Hay-fever. Chronic
hives. Tuberculosis, aids nutrition, Alcoholism when
nothing will stay on stomach.

Mind. — Irritable and depressed. Forgetful, lack of
concentration.

Head. — Dull, aching; better cold, pressure. Dull
frontal and supra-orbital headache; worse moving eyes,
cold air; better, warmth.

Face. — Skin feels dry and itches. Acne on chin.

Throat. — Irritated; pain to ears; sore, dry, with
hawking and expectoration.

Eyes. — Burn, red ; worse, any change of temperature.

Nose. — Bland coryza; stuffed feeling; feels sore in-
side. Irresistible desire to sneeze,
ICHTHYOLUM — IGNATIA 393

Stomach, — Disagreeable taste, burning sensation,
very thirsty. Nausea. Increased appetite. ,

Abdomen. — Disposition to soft, shapeless stools.
Griping in umbilical and left hypogastric region. Early
morning diarrhea,

Urine, — Increased in quantity and frequency. Burn-
ing pain in meatus. Uric acid deposits.

Female. — Fullness in lower abdomen. Nausea at
time of menses.

Respiratory. — Coryza; dry, teasing cough. Bron-
chiectasis and phthisis. Bronchitis, especially of the
aged.

Skin. — Heat and irritation; itching. Scaly and itch-
ing eczema. Crops of boils. Pruritus of pregnancy.

‘Extremities. — Lameness in right shoulder and right
lower extremity.

Relationship.— Compare: Hepar; Calc.; Silica;
Sulph.; Ars.; Petrol.

Dose. — Lower potencies.

Externally, it is used as an ointment, with Lanoline
20 to 50 per cent.; for chronic eczema and psoriasis, also
acne rosacea and gouty joints. Chilblains, scabies.

IGNATIA
(St. Ignatius Bean)

Produces a marked hyperesthesia of all the senses,
and a tendency to clonic spasms. Mentally, the emo-
tional element 1s uppermost, and co-ordination of func-
tion is interfered with. Hence, it is one of the chief
remedies for hysteria. It is especially adapted to the
nervous temperament — women of sensitive, easily ex-
cited nature, dark, mild disposition, quick to perceive.
394 IGNATIA

rapid in execution. Rapid change of mental and phy-
sical condition, opposite to each other. Great contra-
dictions. Alert, nervous, apprehensive, rigid, trembling
patients who suffer acutely in mind or body, at the
same time made worse by drinking coffee. The super-
ficial and erratic character of its symptoms is most char-
acteristic. Cannot bear tobacco. Pain is small, circum-
scribed spots.” [Oxal. ac.] The plague,

Mind. — Changeable mood; introspective; silently
brooding. Melancholic, sad, tearful. Not communica-
tive. Sighing and sobbing. After shocks, grief, disap-
pointment.

Head. — Feels hollow, heavy; worse, stooping. Head-
ache as if a nail were driven out through the side.
Ciamp-like pain over root of nose. Congestive head-
aches following anger or grief; worse, smoking or
sniclling tobacco, inclines head forward.

Eyes. — Asthenopia, with spasms ot lids and neuralgic
pain about eyes. [Nat. m.] Flickering zigzags. °

Face. -—- Twitching of muscles of face and_ lips.
Changes color when at rest.

Mouth. — Sour taste. Easily bites inside of cheeks.
Constantly full of saliva. Toothache: worse atter
drinking coffee and smoking.

Throat. -— Feeling of a lump in throat that cannot be
swallowed. Sore throat; stitches when not swallowing;
hetter, eating something solid. Stitches between acts
of swallowing. Stitches extend to ear. [#/ep.] Ton
sils inflamed, swollen, with small ulcers. Follicular ton-
sillitis.

Stomach. — Sour eructation. All-gone feeling in
stomach; much flatulence; hiccough. Cramps in stom-
ach; worse slightest contact. Averse to ordinary diet;
IGNATIA 395

longs for great variety of indigestible articles. Sinking
im stomach, relieved by taking a deep breath.

Abdomen. — Rumbling in bowels. Weak feeling in
upper abdomen. Throbbing in abdomen.  [Aloc;
Sang.) Colicky, griping pains in one or both sides of
ahdomen.

Rectum. — Itching and stitching up the rectum. Pro-
lapse. Stools pass with difficulty; painful constriction
of anus after slool. Stitches in hemorrhoids during
cough. Diarrhcea from fright. Stitches from anus deep
into rectum. Hemorrhage and pain: worse when stool
is loose. Pressure as of a sharp instrument from within
outward,

Urine. — Profuse, watery. [Phos. ac.]

Respiratory. -— Dry, spasmodic cough in quick suc-
cessive shocks. Reflex coughs. Coughing increases the
desire to cough. JAfuch sighing. Hollow spasmodic
cough, worse in the evening, little expectoration, leaving
pain in the trachea.

Female. — Menses, black, too early, too profuse, or
scanty. During menses great languor, with spasmodic
pains in stomach and abdomen. Feminine sexual frigid-
ity. Suppression from grief.

Extremities. — Jerking of limbs. Pain in tendo-
Achilles and calf. Ulcerative pain in soles.

Sleep. — Very light. Jerking of limbs on going to
sleep. Insomnia from grief, cares, with itching of arms
and violent yawning. Dreams continuing a long time;
troubling him.

Fever. — Chill, with thirst; not relieved by external
heat. During fever, itching; nettle-rash all over body.

Skin. —Itching, nettle-rash. Very sensitive to
draught of air. Excoriation, especially around vagina
and mouth. ‘
396 IGNATIA — ILLICIUM

Modalities. — Worse, in the morning, open air, after
meals, coffee, smoking, liquids, external warmth. Better,
while eating, change of position.

: Relationship. — Compare: Zinc.; Kali phos.; Scp.;
Cimicif.

Complementary: Nat. mur.

Incompatible: Coffea; Nux; Tabac.

Antidotes: Puls.; Cham.; Coce.

Dose. — Tincture, to 200th potency.

ILLICIUM
(Anise)

Should be remembered in the treatment of flatulent
conditions. So called three-months’ colic, especially if
it recurs at regular hours; much rumbling in abdomen
One symptom is worthy of special remembrance — pain
in region of third rib, about an inch or two from the
sternum, generally on right side, but occasionally on
left. Frequent cough with this pain. Purulent tracheal
and gastric catarrh of old drunkards. Old asthmatics.
Vomiting, epileptiform convulsions with biting of
tongue.

Nose, — Sharp stitches beneath lip. Acute catarrh.
Burning and numbness of inner lower lip.

Respiratory. — Dyspnaa. Pain near third intercostal!
cartilage. Cough, with pus-like phlegm. Palpitation,
with aphthe. Hezmoptysis.

4

Dose. — Third potency,

a
396 IGNATIA — ILLICIUM

Modalities. — Worse, in the morning, open air, after
meals, coffee, smoking, liquids, external warmth. Better,
while eating, change of position.

: Relationship. — Compare: Zinc.; Kali phos.; Scp.;
Cimicif.

Complementary: Nat. mur.

Incompatible: Coffea; Nux; Tabac.

Antidotes: Puls.; Cham.; Coce.

Dose. — Tincture, to 200th potency.

ILLICIUM
(Anise)

Should be remembered in the treatment of flatulent
conditions. So called three-months’ colic, especially if
it recurs at regular hours; much rumbling in abdomen
One symptom is worthy of special remembrance — pain
in region of third rib, about an inch or two from the
sternum, generally on right side, but occasionally on
left. Frequent cough with this pain. Purulent tracheal
and gastric catarrh of old drunkards. Old asthmatics.
Vomiting, epileptiform convulsions with biting of
tongue.

Nose, — Sharp stitches beneath lip. Acute catarrh.
Burning and numbness of inner lower lip.

Respiratory. — Dyspnaa. Pain near third intercostal!
cartilage. Cough, with pus-like phlegm. Palpitation,
with aphthe. Hezmoptysis.

4

Dose. — Third potency,

a
ILEX AQUIFOLIUM -—— INDIGO 397

ILEX AQUIFOLIUM
(American Holly)

Marked eye symptoms, spleen pain. All symptoms
.better in winter.

Eye. — Infiltration of cornea; staphyloma; nightly
burning in orbits, rheumatic inflammation of eye; psilo-
sis.

_ INDIGO
(Indigo — Dye-stuff)

Marked action on the nervous system, and of un-
doubted benefit in the treatment of epilepsy with great
sadness, Excited mood and desire to be busy. Neuras-
thenia and hysteria. Pure powdered Indigo placed on
the wound cures snake and spider poison. [Kali per-
mang.; Colondrina; Cedron.}

Head. — Vertigo wtih nausea. Convulsions. Sensa-
tion of a band around forehead. Undulating sensa-
tion through whole head. Sensation as if brain were
frozen. Gloomy; cries at night. Hair feels pulled
from vertex. Head feels frozen,

Nose, — Excessive sneezing and bleeding from nose.

Ears. — Pressure and roaring.

Stomach. — Metallic taste. Eructations. Bloating.
Anorexia. Flushes of heat rising from stomach to
head. ;

Rectum. — Falling of rectum. Aroused at night with
horrible itching at anus.

Urinary. — Constant desire to urinate. Urine turbid.
Catarrh of bladder.

Extremities. — Sciatica. Pain from middle of thigh to
knee. Boring pain in knee-joint; better, walking. Pain
in limbs worse after every meal,
398 INDIGO — INDIUM

Nerves. — Hysterical symptoms where pain predomi-
nates. Excessive nervous irritation. Epilepsy; flashes
of heat from abdomen to head; fit begins with dizzi-
ness. Aura from a painful spot between shoulders.
Reflex spasms from worms.

Modalities. — Worse, during rest and sitting. Better,
pressure, rubbing, motion.

Relationship. —-Compare: Céstri#s cameh, an Indian
medicine for epilepsy.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

INDIUM
(The Metal Indium)

Headaches and migraine. Seminal emissions, Back-
ache,

Head. — Pain in heud when straining at stuul. Burst
ing in head during stool. Dull pains in temples and
forehead, with nausca, weakness, sleepiness. Gone feel-
ing in stomach about 11 a.m. Violent attack of sneez-
ing. Sexual psychopathy.

Face.— Painful suppurating pimples. Corners of
mouth cracked and sore. [Condur.]

Male. — Horribly offensive smell of urine after stand-
ing a short time. Emissions too frequent. Diminished

power. Testicles tender; drawing pains along sper-
matic cord.

Extremities. — Stiffness in neck and shoulders. Pain,

especially in left arm. Legs restless and weary. Toes
itch, [Agar.]

Dose. — Sixth to 200th potency,
INDOL — INULA 399

INDOL
(A Crystalline Compound Derivable from Indigo, but
also a product of Putrefaction of Proteids)

Primary action is to increase the elimination of In-
dican, Auto-intoxication. Compare: Skatol.

Persistent desire to sleep, dull, discontented mental
state, hideous, delusions and nervousness, constant mo-
tion of fingers and feet. Intestinal putrefaction.

Head. — Dull occipital and frontal headache in after-
noon, Dull sensation over eyes. Eyeballs hot and hurt
when moved. Pupils dilated with headache.

Stomach. — Bloated feeling, Hungry sensation after
full meal. Great thirst. Constipacion.

Extremities. —- Very tired and sore in lower limbs.
Feet burn. Kuwvee-joints sore.

Sleep. — Slecpiness. Contmuous dreaming.

Dose. — Sixth attenuation.

INULA
(Scabwort)

A mucous membrane medicine. Bearing-down sensa-
tions in pelvic organs and Lronchial symptome are most
marked.

Head. — Vertigo on stooping; throbbing after eating,
pressure in temples and forehead.

Respiratory. — Dry cough; worse at night and lying
down; larynx painful. Chronic bronchitis; cough, with
much thick expectoration, with languor and weak di-
gestion, Stitches behind sternum. Teasing cough with
much and free expectoration.

Female. — Menses too early and painful. Labor-like
pains; urging to stool; dragging in genitals, with vio-
400 INULA — IODOFORMUM

lent backache. Itching of legs during menses, chat-
tering of teeth from cold during menstruation. Mov-
ing about in abdomen, stitches in genitals.

Rectum. — Pressing toward rectum as of something
extruding.

Urinary. — Frequent urging to urinate; passes only in
drops. Violet odor. [Tereb.]}

Extremities. — Pain in right shoulder and wrist; tear-
ing in left palm, unable to double fingers; pain in lower
limbs, feet and ankles.

Relationship. — Compare: Crocus; Ignatia; Arum
dracontium (loose cough worse at night on lying down).

Dose. — First to third potency.

IODOFORMUM
(Iodoform)

Should not be forgotten in the treatment of tuber-
cular meningitis, both as a local application to the head
and internally. [Bacil.] Tuberculous conditions.

Head. — Sharp, neuralgic pain. I{ead feels heavy, as
if it could not be lifted from pillow. Itching of occiput.
Meningitis. Sleep interrupted by sighing and ,cries.
Very drowsy.

Eyes. —- Pupils, dilated; contract unequally, react
poorly. Diplopia. Failing sight due to retro-bulbar
neuritis, central scotoma — partial atrophy of optic disc.

Chest. — Sore pain in apex of right lung. Feeling of
a weight on chest, as 1f smothering. Cough and wheez-
ing on guing to bed. Pain in left breast, like a hand
grasping at the base of the heart. Hzmoptysis. Asth-
matic breathing.
10D0FORMUM — 100UM 401

Abdomen. — Scaphoid abdomen. Chronic diarrhcea.
with suspected tuberculosis. Abdomen distended; mes-
enteric glands enlarged. Cholera infantum. Chronic
diarrha@a; stools greenish, watcry, undigested, with ir-
ritable temper.

Extremities. — Legs weak; cannot stand and walk
with eyes closed, Weakness of knees when going up-
stairs,

Dose. — Second trituration. Three grains on the back
of the tongue will relieve attack of asthmatic breath-
ing.

IODUM
(Iodine)

Ali glandular structures, respiratory organs, cir-
culatory system are especially affected; they atrophy.
Todine arouses the defensive apparatus of the system
Ly assembling the mononuciear leucocytes whose pha-
gocytic action is marked, at a given point. Lead poison-
ing. Tremor.

eleule exacerbation of chronic inflammation. Arth-
ritis deformans. Acts prominently on connective tis-
sue. The plague. Abnormal vaso-constriction, capil-
lary congestion followed by edema, ecchymoses, hzmor-
rhages, and nutritive disturbances are the pathological
conditions at the basis of its symptomatology. Slug-
gish ‘vital reaction, hence chronicity in many of its
aspects. Acute catarrh of all mucous membranes, rapid
emaciation, notwithstanding good appetite, and gland-
ular atrophy call for this remedy, in numerous wasting
diseases and in scrofulous patients. Acute affections of
the respiratory organs. Pneumonia, rapid extension.
Iodine is warm, and wants cool surroundings. Weak-
ness and loss of breath going upstairs. Adenoid vege-
402 IODUM

tations, Tincture internally and locally to swollen
glands,

Mind. — Anxiety when quiet. Present anxiety and
depression, no reference to the future. Sudden impulse
to run and do violence. Forgetful. Must be busy. Fear
of people, shuns every one. Melancholy. Suicidal ten-
dency.

Head. — Throbbing; rush, of blood, and feeling of a
tight band. Vertigo; worse from stooping, worse in
warm room. Chronic, congestive headache of old peopte.
[Phos.]

Eyes. — Violent lachrymation. Pain in eyes. Pup1l
dilated. Constant motion of eyeballs. cleute daryocys-
titis.

Nose. — Sneezing. Sudden violent influenza. Dry
coryza becomes fluent in open air, also a fluent hot
corysa with gencral heat of skin. Pain at root of nose
and frontal sinus. Nose stopped up. Tendency to ul-
ceration. Loss of smell. .deute usa? engorgement as-
sociated with high blood pressure.

Mouth. — Gums Joose and bleed easily. Foul ulcers
and salivation. Profuse, fetid ptyalism. Tongue thickly
coated. Offensive odor from mouth.

Throat. — Larynx feels constricted. Eustachian deuf-
ness, Thyroid enlarged. Goitre, with sensation of
constriction. Swollen submaxillary glands. Uvula
swollen.

Stomach. — Throbbing at pit of stomach, Ravenous
hunger and much thirst. Empty eructations, as if every
particle of food were turned into gas. Anxious and
worried if he does not eat. (Cina; Sulph.] Loses
flesh, yet hungry and eating well. [Abrot.]

Abdomen.—Liver and spleen sore and enlarged.
Jaundice. Mesenteric glands enlarged. Pancreatic dis-
ease, Cutting pain in abdomen,
I0DUM 403

Stool. — Hemorrhage at every stool. Diarrhoea, whit-
ish, frothy, fatty. Constipation, with ineffectual urg-
ing; better by drinking cold milk. Constipation alter-
nating with diarrhea. [Anz#. cr.]

Urine. — Frequent and copious, dark yellow-green
(Bovista), thick, acrid with cuticle on surface.

Male. — Testicles swollen and indurated. Hydrocele.
Loss of sexual power, with atrophied testes.

Female. —- Great weakness during menses. [Alum.;
Carbo an., Coccul.; Haematox.] Menstruation irreg-
ular. Uterine haemorrhage. Ovaritis. [Apis; Bell.;
Lach.] Wedge-Kke pain from ovary to uterus. Dwin-
dling cf mammary glands. Nodosities in skin of mam-
mz. Acrid leucorrheea, thick, slimy, corroding the linen.
Wedge-like pain in the right ovarian region.

Respiratory. — Hoarse. Raw and tickling feeling pro-
voking a dry cough. Pain iw larynx, Laryngitis, with
painful roughness; worse during cough. Child grasps
throat when coughing. Right-sided pneumonia with
high temperature” Pneumonia, Difficult expansion of
chest, blood-streaked sputum; internal dry heat, external
coldness. Violent heart action. Hepatization spreads
rapidly. Croup in scrofulous children with dark hair
and eyes. [Brom. opposite.} Inspiration difficult. Dry,
morning cough, from tickling in larynx. Croupy cough,
with difficult respiration; wheezy. Cold extends down-
wards from head to throat and bronchi. Great weakness
about chest. Palpitation from least exertion,:. Pleuritic
effusion. Tickling all over chest. Iod. cough is worse
indoors, in warm, wet weather, and when lying on back.

Heart. — Heart feels squeezed. Myocarditis, painful
compression around heart. Feels as if squeezed by an
iron hand [Cactus] followed by great weakness and
faintness. Palpitation from least exertion.
404 ODUM — IPECACUANHA

Extremities. = “Foints inflamed and painful. Pain in
‘bones at night. White swelling. Gonorrheeal rheuma-
tism, “Rheumatism of nape and upper extremities. Cold
hands and feet. Acrid sweat of fect. Pulsation in large
arterial trunks. “Rheumatic pains, nightly pains in joints ;”
constrictive sensations.

Skin. — Hot, dry, yellow and withered. Glands en-
larged. Nodosities. Anasarca of cardiac disease.

Fever. — Flushes of heat all over body. Marked fever,
restlessness, red cheeks, apathetic. Profuse sweat.

Modalities. — Worse, when quiet, in warm room.
right side. Better, walking about, in open air.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Hepar; Sulph.; Gratiola.

Complementary: Lycopod.; Badiaga.

Compare: Brom.; Hepar; Mercur.; Phosph.; Abrot;
Nat, mur.; Sanic.; Tuler.

Dose. — The crude drug in saturated solution may be
required. Third to thirtieth potency. Ioduretted solu-
tion of Potass. iod. (35 grains Potassa and 4 grains
Iodine to 1 oz. of water, 10 drops three times a day)
expels tapeworms dead.

Locally the most powerful, least harmful and easily
managed microbicide. Ideal agent to keep wounds clean
and disinfected. Bites of insects, reptiles, etc. Gun-
shot wounds and compound fractures, excellent. Great
skin disinfectant.

IPECACUANHA
(Ipecac-root)

The chief action is on the ramifications of the pneu-
mogastric nerve, producing spasinodic irritation in chest
and stomach. Morphia habit, The principal feature of
Ipecacuanha is its persistent nausca and vomiting, which
form the chief guiding symptoms. Indicated after in-
IPECACUANHA 405

digestible food, raisins, cakes, etc. Especially indicated
in fat children and adults, who are feeble and catch
cold in relaxing atmosphere; warm, moist weather.
Spasmodic affections. Hzemorrhages bright-red and
profuse.

Mind. — Irritable; holds everything in contempt. ‘Pull
of desires, for what they know not.

Head. — Bones of skull feel crushed or bruised. Pain
extends to teeth and root of tongue.

Eyes. — Inflamed, red. Pain through eyeballs, Pro-
fuse lachrymation. Cornea dim, Eyes tire from near
vision. State of vision constantly changing. Spasm of
accommodation from irritable weakness of the ciliary
muscle, Nausea from looking on moving objects.

Face. — Blue rings around eyes. Periodical orbital
neuralgia, with lachrymation, photophobia, and smart-
ing eyelids.

Nose. — Coryza, with stoppage of nose and nausea.
Epistaxis.

Stomach. — Tongue usually clean. Mouth, moist;
much saliva. Constant nausea and vomiting, with pale,
twitching of face. Vomits food, bile, blood, mucus.
Stomach feels relaxed, as if hanging down. Hiccough.

Abdomen. — Amebic dysentery wtih tenesmus; while
straining pain so great that it nauseates; little thirst.
Cutting, clutching ; worse, around the navel. Body rigid;
stretched out stiff.

Stools. — Pitch-like, green as grass, like frothy mo-
lasses, with griping at navel. Dystenteric, slimy.

Female. — Uterine hemorrhage, profuse, bright, gush-
ing, with nausea, Vomiting during pregnancy. [Ant. t.;
Arg. n.; Nux v.; Tabac.; Sep.; Sulph.] Pain from
navel to uterus, Menses too early and too profuse.
406 IPECACUANHA

Respiratory. — Dyspnea ; constant constriction in
chest. Asthma, Yearly attacks of difficult shortness of
breathing. Continued sneezing; coryza; wheezing
cough. Cough incessant and violent, with every breath.
Chest seems full of phlegm, but does not yield to cough-
ing. Bubbling rales. Suffocative cough; child becomes
stiff, and blue in the face. Whooping-cough, with nose-
bleed, and from mouth. Bleeding from lungs, with
nausea; feeling of constriction; rattling cough. Croup.
Hemoptysis from slightest exertion. [Afillef.] Hoarse-
ness, especially at end of a cold. Complete aphonia.

Fever. — Intermittent fever, irregular cases, after
Quinine. Slightest chill with much heat, nausca, vomit-
ing, and dyspnoea. Relapses from improper diet.

Sleep. — With eyes half open. Shocks in all limbs on
going to sleep. [Jgn.]

Extremities. — Body stretched stiff, followed by
spasmodic jerking of arms towards each other.

Skin. — Pale, Jax. Blue around eyes. Miliary rash.

Modalities. — Worsc, periodically; from veal, moist
warm wind, lying down.

Relationship. Compare: Emetine — principal alka-
loid of Ipecac. A powerful amebicide, but is not a
bactericide, Specific for amebiasis; of remarkable
value in treatment of amexbic dysentery; also as a rem-
edy in pyorrhoea, 4 gr. daily for three days, then less.
Emetin, % gr. hypodermically, in Psoriasis, Emetin
hydroch, 2x, diarrhoea with colicky, abdominal pains
and nausea. Emetin for endameebic dysentery. In
physiological doses must be carefully watched. May
produce hepatization of lungs, rapid heart action, tend-
ency for the head to fall forward and lobar pneumonia.
in hemetemesis and other hemorrhages, tompare:
Gelatin (which has a marked effect on the coagulability
406 IPECACUANHA

Respiratory. — Dyspnea ; constant constriction in
chest. Asthma, Yearly attacks of difficult shortness of
breathing. Continued sneezing; coryza; wheezing
cough. Cough incessant and violent, with every breath.
Chest seems full of phlegm, but does not yield to cough-
ing. Bubbling rales. Suffocative cough; child becomes
stiff, and blue in the face. Whooping-cough, with nose-
bleed, and from mouth. Bleeding from lungs, with
nausea; feeling of constriction; rattling cough. Croup.
Hemoptysis from slightest exertion. [Afillef.] Hoarse-
ness, especially at end of a cold. Complete aphonia.

Fever. — Intermittent fever, irregular cases, after
Quinine. Slightest chill with much heat, nausca, vomit-
ing, and dyspnoea. Relapses from improper diet.

Sleep. — With eyes half open. Shocks in all limbs on
going to sleep. [Jgn.]

Extremities. — Body stretched stiff, followed by
spasmodic jerking of arms towards each other.

Skin. — Pale, Jax. Blue around eyes. Miliary rash.

Modalities. — Worsc, periodically; from veal, moist
warm wind, lying down.

Relationship. Compare: Emetine — principal alka-
loid of Ipecac. A powerful amebicide, but is not a
bactericide, Specific for amebiasis; of remarkable
value in treatment of amexbic dysentery; also as a rem-
edy in pyorrhoea, 4 gr. daily for three days, then less.
Emetin, % gr. hypodermically, in Psoriasis, Emetin
hydroch, 2x, diarrhoea with colicky, abdominal pains
and nausea. Emetin for endameebic dysentery. In
physiological doses must be carefully watched. May
produce hepatization of lungs, rapid heart action, tend-
ency for the head to fall forward and lobar pneumonia.
in hemetemesis and other hemorrhages, tompare:
Gelatin (which has a marked effect on the coagulability
IPECACUAN HA — IRIDIUM 407

of the blood. Hypodermically; or if by mouth, a 10
per cent. jelly, about 4 oz., three times a day). Arsenic;
Cham.; Puls.; Tart. em.; Squill. Convolvulus (colic
and diarrhea). Typha latifolia —- Cat-tail flag (dysen-
tery, diarrhoea) and summer complaint).

In Asthma, compare: Blutia oricntalis.

Autidotes: Arsenic; China; Tabac.

Complementary: Cuprum,; Arn.

Dose. — Third to 200th potency.

IRIDIUM
(The Metal)

Intestinal putrefaction and septicemia. Anemia, in-
creases red corpuscles. Epilepsy; lupus. Rheumatism
and gout. Uterine tumors. Spinal paresis. Exhaustion
ajter disease, Children who are puny, weak-limbed, and
grow too fast. Nephritis of pregnancy.

Head. — Difficult concentration of thought. Sensation
as if mind were void. Thought confused. ‘“Woodeny”
feeling in right side of head. Right side of scalp sen-
sitive. Profuse, watery coryza, better indoors, Ozzna.

Respiratory. — Hoarse cough, worse talking ; posterior
nares feel raw, inflamed, profuse, thick, yellowish dis-
charge. Chronic laryngeal catarrh.

Back and Extremities. — Weakness in the kidney re-
gion. Spinal paresis, especially for the aged and after
disease. Pressing in groin and left thigh. Tension in
both thighs, especially left. Dislocated feeling in left
hip-joint and dull pain toward left gluteal region.

Relationship. — Compare: Iridium chloride. (Pro-

duces salivation and stiffness of jaws followed by head
and nervous symptoms, Congestion of nares and bron-
408 TRIDIUM — IRIS VERSICOLOR

chi. Dragging pain in lower back. Headache worse
right side, heavy feeling as of liquid lead.)
Compare: Platina; Palladium; Osmium,
Dose. — Sixth and higher.

IRIS VERSICOLOR
(Blue Flag)

Thyroid, pancreas, salivary, intestinal glands, and gas-
tro-intestinal mucous membrane, are especially affected.
Increases the flow of bile. Sick headaches and cholera
morbus are a special therapeutic field for its action.

Head. — Frontal headache, with nausea. Scalp feels
constricted. Right temples especially affected. Sick
headache, worse rest; begins with a blur before eyes
Pustular eruption on scalp.

Ears. — Roaring, buzzing, ringing in ears, with deaf-
ness, Aural vertigu, wilh intense noises in ears.
Vomiting and flickering before eyes.

Face. — Neuralgia after breakfast, beginning in infra-
orbital nerve, and involving whole face.

Throat. — Mouth and tongue feel scalded. Heat and
smarting in throat. Burning. Profuse flow of saliva;
ropy. Goitre.

Stomach. — Burning of whole alimentary canal. Vom-
iting, sour, bloody, biliary, Nausea. Profuse flow of
saliva. [Merc.; Ipec.; Kali iod.] Defictent appetite.

Abdomen. — Liver sore. Cutting pain. Flatulent colic.
Diarrhcea; stools watery, with burning at anus and
through intestinal canal. Periodical night diarrhea,
with pain and green discharges, Constipation (give
30th).

Extremities. — Shifting pains. Sciatica, as if left hip-
IRIS VERSICOLOR — JACARANDA 409

joint were wrenched. Pain extends to popliteal space.
Gonorrheal rheumatism (use /risin).

Skin. — Herpes zoster, associated with gastric de-
rangements, Pustular eruptions. Psoriasis; irregular
patches with shining scales. Eczema, with nightly itch-
ing.

Modalities. — Worse, in evening and at night, from
rest. Bctter, fromm continued motion.

Relationship. — Antidote: Nuz.

Compare: Jris florentina — Orris-1oot — (delirium,
convulsions, and paralysis); Jris factissima (headache
and hernia); Jris germanica— Blue Garden Iris —
(dropsy and freckles); Jris tenax—I. minor — (dry
mouth; deathly sensation at point of stomach, pain im
ileo-c@cal region; appendicitis. Pain from adhesions
after). Pancreatinum (diseases of pancreas, gout, dia-
betes) ; [pec.; Podoph.; Sanguin.; Ars.; Ant. cr.

Dose. — Tincture to thirtieth potency. Favorable re-
ports from the very highest potencies.

JACARANDA
(Brazilian Caroba-tree)

Has reputation as a remedy in venereal diseases and
rheumatism. Morning sickness. The urinary and sexual
symptoms are important. Rheumatic symptoms.

Head. — Vertigo on rising, with heavy forehead. Eyes
pain; are inflamed and watery Coryza with heavy head.

Throat. — Sore, dry, constricted. Vesicles in
pharynx.

Urinary.— Urethra inflamed; discharge of yellow
matter.
410 JACARANDA — JALAPA

Male.—- Heat and pain in penis; painful erections;
phimosis. Prepuce painful and swollen. Chancroid.
Chordee. Itching pimples on glans and prepuce.

Extremities. — Rheumatic pain in right knee. Weak-
ness of lumbar region. Morning soreness and stiffness
of muscles. Gonorrhceal rheumatism. Itching pimples
on hands.

Relationship. — Compare: Thuja; Corallium; Jacar-
anda Gualandai (in syphilitic symptoms, especially of
eye and throat. Chancroids. Dark, painless diarrhcea.)

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

JALAPA
(Jalap)

Causes and cures colic and diarrhoea. The child is
good all day, but screams and is restless and trouble-
some at night.

Gastro-intestinal. — Tongue, smooth, glazed, dry,
smarting. — Pain in right hypochondrium. Flatulence
and nausea, Pinching and griping. Watery diarrhea;
thin, muddy stools, Abdomen distended. Face cold and
blue. Anus sore.

Extremities. — Aching in arms and legs. Pain in
large joint of great toe. Smarting at root of nail.
Burning of soles.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Elater.; Cann. sat
Compare: Camph.; Calocy.
Dose. — Third to twelfth potency,
JATROPHA — JEQUIRITY 411

JATROPHA
(Purging Nut)

Of value in cholera and diarrhea. The abdominal
symptoms are most important.

Stomach. — Hiccough, followed by copious vomiting.
Nausea and vomiting, brought on by drinking, with
acrid fecling from throat. Great thirst. Very casy
vomiting. Fleat and burning in stomach, with crampy,
constrictive pain in epigastrium.

Abdomen. — Distended, with gurgling noises. Pain in
hypochondria. Pain in region of liver and under right
scapula to shoulder. Violent urging to urinate.

Stool. — Sudden, profuse, watery, like rice-water.
Diarrhea; forced discharge; loud noise in abdomen
like gurgling of water coming out of a bung-hole, asso-
ciated with coldness, cramps, nausea, and vomiting.

Extremities. — Cramps in muscles, especially calves,
legs, and feet. Coldness cf whole body.

Modalities. — Better, by placing hands in cold water.

Relationship. — Compare: Camph.; Verat.; Gambog.;
Croton.,; Jatropha urens — Sponge-nettle — (cedema and
cardiac paresis).

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

JEQUIRITY— ARBUS PRECATORIUS
(Indian Liquorice)

Epithelioma, lupus, ulcers, granular lids.

Eyes. — Purulent conjunctivitis; inflammation spreads
to face and neck. Granular ophthalmia.

Relationship. — Compare: Jequiritol (in cases of
trachoma and pannus to engraft a new purulent inflam-
412 JEQUIRITY — JONOSIA ASOCA — JUGLANS CINEREA

mation. The proteid poisons contained in Jequirity
seeds are almost identical in their physiological and
toxic properties with the similar principles found in
snake venom).

JON®@SIA ASOCA
(Bark of an Indian Tree, introduced by
Dr. N. D. Ray, Calcutta)

Has extensive sphere of action on female organs.
Amenorrhea and metrorrhagia,

Head. — Unilateral headache; reflex uterine, con-
gestive headache, better open air and by free flow.
Pain in eyeballs; supra-orbital pains, photophobia. Nasal
catarrh, profuse, watery discharge. Loss of sense of
smell.

Gastric. — Desire for sweets, also acid things. Thirsty,
excessive nausea; obstinate constipation, hemorrhoids.

Female, — Delayed and irregular menses; menstrual
colic: amenorrhea, pain in ovaries before flow; menor-
rhagia, irritable bladder; leucorrhea.

Sleep. — Disturbed. Dreams of traveling.

Back. — Pain along spine radiating to abdomen and
thighs.

Dose. — Tincture.

JUGLANS CINEREA
(Butternut)

A faulty elimination that produces jaundice and vari-
ous skin eruptions, is pictured by this drug. ‘The sharp,
occipital headache, usually associated with liver dis-
turbances, is very characteristic. Pain in chest, axilla
amt: scapula, with suffocative sensation. Cholelithiasis.
JUGLANS CINEREA — JUGLANS REGIA 413

Head.— Dull, full head. Eruption on _ scalp.
Sharp, occipital headache. Head feels enlarged. Pus-
tules on lids and around eyes.

Nose. — Tingling in nose; sneezing. Coryza, pre-
ceded by pain under sternum, with threatening suffoca-
tion. Later, copious, bland, thick mucus discharge.

Mouth. — Acrid feeling in mouth and throat. Sore-
ness in region of tonsils externally. Dryness of root
of tongue and fauces.

Stomach, — Atonic dyspepsia with much eructation
and flatulent distention. Soreness in region of liver.

Back. — Muscles of neck rigid, lame. Pain between
scapula and under right. Pain in lumbar vertebre.

Skin. — Jaundice, with pain about liver and right
scapula. Jtching and pricking when heated. Pustules.
Eczema, especially on lower extremities, sacrum and
hands. Erythema and erysipelatous redness.

Stool. — Yellowish-green, with tenesmus and burn-
ing at anus. Camp diarrhea.

Modalities. — Better, getting heated, exercise, scratch-
ing, on rising in morning. Worse, walking.

Relationship. — Compare: Juglandin (duodenal ca-
tarrh; bilious diarrhea); Chelidon.; Bryon., Iris.

Dose, — Tincture, to third potency.

JUGLANS REGIA
(Walnut)

Skin eruptions are prominent.
Head. — Confused; feels as if head were floating in
air. Occipital sharp pain. [Juglans cin.]  Styes.

Female. — Menses early, black, pitch-like coagula.
Abdomen distended.
414 JUGLANS REGIA — JUNCUS EFFUSUS — JUNIPERUS

Skin. — Comedones and acne of the face. Crusta
lactea, with soreness around ears. Itching and erup-
tions of small red pustules. Scalp red, and itches vio-
lently at night. Chancre-like ulcer. Axillary glands
suppurate.

Relationship. — Compare: Juglans cinerea.

Dose. — Tincture, and lower potencies.

JUNCUS EFFUSUS
(Common Rush)

Urinary affections. Dysuria, strangury, and ischuria.
Asthmatic symptoms in hemorrhoidal subjects. Bub-
bling sensations. Abdominal flatulence.

Dose. — Third potency.

JUNIPERUS — COMMUNIS
(Juniper Berries)

Catarrhal inflammation of kidneys. Dropsy, with
suppression of urine. Old persons, with poor digestion
and scanty secretion of urine. Chronic pyelitis.

Urinary. — Strangury; bloody, scanty urine, violet
odor. [TYereb.] Weight mm kidney region. Prostatic
discharge. Renal hyperemia. [Eucalyptol.}

Respiratory. — Cough with scanty, loaded urine.

Relationship. — Compare: Sabina, Juniperus Virgin-
sanus — Red Cedar — (apoplexy, convulsions, strangury,
uterine hemorrhage). Terebinthina. :

Dose. — Best form is the infusion. Qile ounce to a

pint of boiling water. Dose, one half té'two ounces, or
tineture, one to ten drops.
JUSTICIA ADHATODA — KALI ARS. 415

JUSTICIA ADHATODA BASAKA
(An Indian Shrub, Singhee)

Highly efficacious medicine for acute catarrhal con-
ditions of the respiratory tract (used in the beginning).

Head. — Irritable, sensitive to external impressions;
hot, full and heavy head; lachrymation, with corysa
profuse. fluent, with constant sneezing; loss of smell
and taste; corysa with cough.

Throat.— Dry, pain during empty swallowing,
tenacious mucus. Mouth dry.

Respiratory. — Dry cough from sternal region all
over chest. Hoarseness, larynx painful. Paroxysmal
cougi, with suffocative obstruction of respiration. Cough
with sncezing. Severe dyspnea with cough. Tightness
across chest. Asthmatic attacks, cannot endure a close,
warm room. Whuoping-cough. °

Relationship.— Seems to come between Cepa and
Euphrasia, which compare.

Dose. — Tincture and third potency.

KALI ARSENICUM
(Fowler’s Solution)

The Kali ars: patient- tends towards malignancy, and
inveterate skin diseases.

Skin. — Intolerable itching, worse undressing. Dry,
scaly, wilted. Acne; pustules worse during menses.
Chronic eczema; itching worse from warmth, walking,
undressing. Psoriasis, lichen. Phagedenic ulcers. Fis-
sures in bends of arms and knees. Gouty nodosities;
worse, change of weather. Skin cancer, where suddenly
416 KALI ARSENICUM — KALI BICHROMICUM

an alarming malignancy without any external signs
sets in. Numerous small nodules under skin.

Female. — Cauliflower excrescences of os uteri,
with flying pains, foul smelling discharge, and pressure
below pubis.

Relationship. — Radium.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

KALI BICHROMICUM
(Bichromate of Potash)

The special affinities of this drug are the mucous
membrane of stomach, bowels, and air-passages; bones
and fibrous tissues. Kidneys, heart, and liver are also
affected. Nephritis with gastric disturbances,  Cir-
rhois of liver. Anzwmia and absence of fever are char-
acteristic. General weakness. It is especially indicated
for fleshy, fat, light complexioned persons subject to
catarrbs or with syphilitic or scrofulous history.
Symptoms are worse in the morning; pains migrate
guickly, rheumatic and gastric symptoms alternate.
More adapted to subacute rather than the violent acute
stage. Mucous membranes everywhere are affected,
and a tough, stringy, viscid secretion is produced, which
condition is a very strong guiding symptom for this
drug. Perforation of the septum. Chronic atonic
catarrh.

Head. — Vertigo with nausea when rising from seat.
Headache over eyebrows, preceded by blurred vision.
Aching and fullness in glabella. Semilateral Headache
in small spots, and from suppressed catarrh. Frontal
pain; usually over one eye. Bones and scalp feel sore.

Eyes. — Supra-orbital neuralgia, right side. Eyelids
burti, swollen, cedematous. Discharge ropv and vel-
416 KALI ARSENICUM — KALI BICHROMICUM

an alarming malignancy without any external signs
sets in. Numerous small nodules under skin.

Female. — Cauliflower excrescences of os uteri,
with flying pains, foul smelling discharge, and pressure
below pubis.

Relationship. — Radium.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

KALI BICHROMICUM
(Bichromate of Potash)

The special affinities of this drug are the mucous
membrane of stomach, bowels, and air-passages; bones
and fibrous tissues. Kidneys, heart, and liver are also
affected. Nephritis with gastric disturbances,  Cir-
rhois of liver. Anzwmia and absence of fever are char-
acteristic. General weakness. It is especially indicated
for fleshy, fat, light complexioned persons subject to
catarrbs or with syphilitic or scrofulous history.
Symptoms are worse in the morning; pains migrate
guickly, rheumatic and gastric symptoms alternate.
More adapted to subacute rather than the violent acute
stage. Mucous membranes everywhere are affected,
and a tough, stringy, viscid secretion is produced, which
condition is a very strong guiding symptom for this
drug. Perforation of the septum. Chronic atonic
catarrh.

Head. — Vertigo with nausea when rising from seat.
Headache over eyebrows, preceded by blurred vision.
Aching and fullness in glabella. Semilateral Headache
in small spots, and from suppressed catarrh. Frontal
pain; usually over one eye. Bones and scalp feel sore.

Eyes. — Supra-orbital neuralgia, right side. Eyelids
burti, swollen, cedematous. Discharge ropv and vel-
KALI BICHROMICUM 417

low. Ulcers on cornea; no pain or photophobia. Des-
cemetitis, with only moderate irritation of eye. Croup-
ous conjunctivitis; granular lids, with pannus. _ Iritis,+
with punctate deposits on inner surface of cornea.
Slight pain, with severe ulceration or inflammation.
[Conium opposite.]

Ears. — Swollen, with tearing pains. Thick, yellow,
stringy, fetid discharge. Sharp stitches in left ear.

Nose. —- Snuffles of children, especially fat, chubby
babics. Pressure and pain at root of nose, and stick-
ing pain in nose. Septum ulcerated; round ulcer.
Fetid smell. Discharge thick, ropy, greenish-yellow.
Tough, clastic plugs from nose; leave a raw surface.
Inflammation extends to frontal sinuses, with distress
and fullness at root of nose. Dropping from posterior
nares. [Hydr.] Loss of smell. Much hawking. In-
ability to breathe through nose. Dryness. Coryza, with
obstruction of nose. Violent sneezing. Profuse, watery
nasal discharge.

Face. -- Florid c mplexion. Blotchy, red appear-
ance. Acne. [Juglans; Kal. ars.] Bones sensitive, espe-
cially beneath orbits.

Mouth.— Dry; viscid saliva. Tongue mapped,
red, shining, smooth, and dry, with dysentery; broad,
flat, indented, thickly coated.

Throat. — Fauces red and inflamed. Dry and rough.
Parotid glands swollen. Uvula relaxed, adematous,
bladder-like. Pseudo-membranous deposit on tonsils and
soft palate. Burning extending to stomach. Aphthe.
Diphtheria, with profound prostration and soft pulse.
Discharge from mouth and throat, tough and stringy.

Stomach. — Nausea and vomiting after heer. Load
immediately after eating. Feels as if digestion had
stopped. Dilatation of stomach. Gastritis. Round ul-
418 KALI BICHROMICUM

cer of stomach. Stitches in region of liver and spleen
and through to spine. Dislikes water. Cannot digest
meat. Desire for beer and acids. Gastric symptoms
are relieved after eating, and the rheumatic symptoms
reappear.

Abdomen. — Cutting pain in abdomen, soon after
eating. Chronic intestinal ulceration. Soreness in right
hypochondrium. Fatty infiltration of liver and increase
in soft fibrous tissue. (Ilinsdale.) Painful retraction,
soreness and burning.

Stool. — Jelly-like, gelatinous; worse, mornings.
Dysentery; tenesmus, stools brown, frothy. Sensation
of a plug in anus. Periodic constipation, with pain
across the loins, and brown urine,

Urinary.— Burning in urethra. After urinating a
drop seems to remain which cannot be expelled. Ropy
mucus in uring. Urethra becomes clogged up. Con-
gestion of kidneys; neplimilis, wilh scanty, albuminous
urine and casts. Pyelitis; urine mixed with epithelial
cells, mucus, pus, or blood. Hematochyluria,

Male. — Itching and pain of penis, with pustules.
Ulcers, with paroxysmal stitches; aggravated at night.
Constriction at root of penis, at night on awakening.
Syphilitic ulcers, with cheesy, tenacious exudation.
Erections. [Picric, ac.] ,

Female. — Yellow, tenacious leucorrheea. Pruritus
of vulva, with great burning and excitement. Prolapsus
uteri; worse in hot weather.

Respiratory. — Voice hoarse; worsc, evening. Me-
tallic, hacking cough. Profuse, yellow expectoration,
very glutmous und sticky, coming out in long, stringy,
and very tenacious mass. Tickling in larynx. Catarrhal
Maryngitis cough has a brassy sound. True membranous
KALI BICHROMICUM 419

croup, extending to larynx and nares. Cough, with pain
in sternum, extending to shoulders; worse when un-
dressing. Vain at bifurcation of trachea on coughing;
from mid-sternum to back.

Heart. — Dilatation, especially from coexisting kid-
ney lesion. Cold feeling around heart. ]Kali nit.]

Back. — Cutting through loins; cannot walk; extends
to groins. Pain in coccyx and sacrum extending up
and down.

Extremities. —Tains fly rapidly from one place to
another. [Kali sulph.; Puls.) Wandering pains, along
the bones; worse cold. Left-sided sciatica; better, mo-
tion. Bones feel sore and bruised. Very weak. Tear-
ing pains in tibia; syphilitic rheumatism. [Mez.]
Crackling of all joints. Soreness of heels when walk-
ing. Tendo Achilles swollen and painful. Pains in
small spots. [O-ralic ac.]

Skin. — Acne. Papular eruptions. Ulcer with punched-
out edycs, with tendency to penetrate and tenacious
exudation: Pustular eruption, resembling small-pox,
with burning pains.

Modalities. — Better, from heat. [’orse, beer, morn-
ing, hot weather, undressing.

Relationship. — Compare: Tart. emet.; Brom.; Ilepar;
Ind.; Calc.; Ant. cr. Jn the production of false mem-
branes compare: Brom.; Ammon. caust.; Sulph. ac.;
Ipecac.

Antidotes: 4rs.; Lach.

Dose. — Third and sixth trituration, also thirtieth
attenuation.

The lower preparations of this salt should not be
kept too long.
420 KALI BROMATUM

KALI BROMATUM
(Bromide of Potash)

Like all Potash Salts, this weakens the heart and
lowers temperature. Brominism is caused by it. Gen-
eral failure of mental power, loss of memory, melan-
cholia, anzsthesia of the mucous membranes, especially
of eyes, throat, and skin; acne; loss of sexual desire,
paralysis. Leading remedy in psoriasis. Nodular form
of chronic gout. Symptoms of apoplectic attacks,
uremic or otherwise; somnolence and stertor, convul-
sions, aphasia, albuminaria,

Mind. — Profound, melancholic delusion; feeling of
moral deficiency; religious depression; delusions of con-
spiracies against him. Imagines he is singled out as an
object of divine wrath. Loss of memory. Must do
something — move about; gets fidgety. [Yarant.] Fear
of being poisoned. [Hvos.] Amnesic aphasia; can pro-
nounce any word toid, but cannor speak otherwise.
Night terrors. Horrid illusions. Active delirium.

Head. — Suicidal mania with tremulousness. Face
flushed. Numb feeling in head. Brain-fag. Coryza
with tendency to extension into throat

Throat. — Congestion of uvula and fauces. Anesthesia
of fauces, pharnyx, and larynx. Dysphagia, especially
of liquids. [Hyos.]

Stomach. — Vomiting, with intense thirst, after each
meal. Persistent hiccough. [Suiph. ac.}

Abdomen. — Sensation as if bowels were falliug ont
Cholera infantum, with reflex cerebral irritation, jerk-
ing and twitching of muscles, Green, walery stools
with iutense thirst. vomiting, eyes sunken. Prostration.
Internal coldness of albdomen. Diarrhcea, with much
‘blood. Green, watery stools. Retraction of abdomen.
KALI BROMATUM — KALI CARBONICUM 421

Urinary. — Sensibility of urethra diminished. Urine
profuse, with thirst. Diabetes. [Phos. ac.]

Male. — Debility and impotence. Effects of sexual
excesses, especially loss of memory, impaired co-ordi-
nation, numbness and tingling in limbs.

Female. —-Pruritus. Ovarian neuralgia with great
nervous uneasiness. Exaggerated sexual appetite.
Cystic tumors of ovaries.

Respiratory. -—- Spasmodic croup. Reflex cough dur-
ing pregnancy. Dry, fatiguing, hacking cough at night.

Extremities. — Fidgety hands; busy twitching of
fingers. Jerking and twitching of muscles.

Skin. — Acne of face, pustules. Itching; worse on
chest, shoulders, and face. Anesthesia of skin. Psor-
tasis,

Sleep. -- Restless sleep. Extreme drowsiness, Sleep-

_lessness due to worry and grief. Night terrors. Grind-
ing tecth in sleep. Horrible dreams. Somnambulism.

Modalities. — Beticr, when occupied mentally or
physically.

Dose. — A few grains of the crude salt to the third
trituration. Remember the unstable character of this
salt. Said to be much more active if salt is eliminated
from the diet.

KALI CARBONICUM
(Carbonate of Potassium)

The weakness characteristic of all Potassium Salts is
seen especially in this, with soft pulse, coldness, gen-
eral depression, and very characteristic stitches, which
may be felt in any part of the body, or in connection
with any affection. Sensitive to every atmospheric
422 KALI CARBONICUM

change, and intolerunce of cold weather. One of the
best remedies following labor. Miscarriage, for con-
sequent debilitated states. Early morning aggravation is
very characteristic. Fleshy aged people, with dropsical
and paretic tendencies. Sweat, backache, and weak-
ness, Pains from within out, and of stinging character.
“Giving-out” sensation. Fatty degenerations. Sting-
ing pains in muscles and internal parts. Twitching of
muscles. Pain in small spot on left side

Mind. — Despondent. Alternating moods. Very irri-
table. Full of fear and imaginations. Anxiety felt in
stomach. Sensation as if bed were sinking. Never
wants to be left alone.

Head. — Vertigo on turning. Headache from riding
in’ cold wind. Headache comes on with yawning.
Stitches in temples; aching in occiput, one-sided, with
nausea, on riding in’ carriage. Loose feeling in head.
Great dryness of hair, falls ont. [Fluor ac J}

Eyes. — Stitches in eyes. Spots, gauze, and black
points before eyes. Lids stick together in morning.
Swelling over upper lid, like little bags. Swelling of
glabella between brows. Asthenopia. Weak sight from
excessive sexual indulgence. On shutting eyes, painful
sensation of light pentrating the brain.

Ears. — Stitches in ears. Itching, cracking, ringing
and roaring.

Nose. --- Nose stuffs up in warm room. Thick, fluent,
yellow discharge. Post-nasal dropping. [Spigel.]
Sore, scurfy nostrils; bloody nasal mucus. Crusty
nasal openings. Nosebleed on washing face in morn-
ing. Ulecrated nostrils.

Mouth. — Gums separate from teeth; pus oozes out.
Pyorrheea, Aphthe. Tongue white. Much saliva con-
stantly in mouth. Bad, slimy taste.
KALI CARBONICUM 423

Throat.— Dry, parched, rough. Sticking pain, as
from a fish-bone. Swallowing difficult; food goes down
cesophagus slowly.

Stomach. — Flatulence. Desire for sweets. Feeling
of lump in pit of stomach. Gagging. Dyspepsia of old
people; burning acidity, bloating. Gastric disorders
from ice-water. Sour cructutions, Nausea; better ly-
ing down. Constant feeling as if stomach were full of
water. Sour vomiting; throbbing and cutting in
stomach. Disgust for food. Anxiety felt in stomach.
Episgastrium sensitive externally. Easy choking when
eating.

Abdomen. — Stitches in region of Jiver. Old chronic
liver troubles, with soreness. Jaundice and dropsy.
Distention and coldness of abdomen. Pain from left
hypochondrium through abdomen; must turn on right
side before he can rise.

Rectum. — Large, difficult stools, with stitching pain
an hour before. Hemorrhoids, large, swollen, painful.
Itching, ulcerated pimples around anus. Large dis-
charge of blood with natura! stool. Pain in haemor-
rhoids when coughing. Burning in rectum and anus.
Easy prolapsus. [Graph.; Pod.}] Itching. [/gnat.]

Urine. — Obliged to rise several times at night to
urinate. Pressure on bladder long before urine comes.
Involuntary urination when coughing, sneezing, etc.

Male. — Complaints from coition. Deficient sexual
instinct. Excessive emissions, followed by weakness.

Female.— Menses early, profuse [Calc. c.] or too
late, pale and scanty, with soreness about genitals; pains
from back pass down through gluteal musctes, with
cutting in abdomen. Pain through left labium, extend-
ing through abdomen to chest. Delayed menses in
young girls, with chest symptoms or ascites. Difficult.
424 KALI CARBONICUM

first menses. Contplaints after parturition. Uterine
hemorrhage; constant oozing after copious flow, with
violent backache, relieved by sitting and pressure,

Respiratory. — Cutting pain in chest; worse lying
on right side. Hoarseness and loss of voice. Dry, hard
cough about 3 a.M., with stitching pains and dryness of
pharnyx. Expectoration scanty and tenacious, but tn-
creasing in morning and after cating; aggravated right
lower chest and lying on painful side. Hydrothorax.
Leaning forward relieves chest symptoms. Expectora-
tion must be swallowed; cheesy taste; copious, offen-
sive, lump. Coldness of chest. Wheesing. Cough
with relaxed uvula. Tendency to tuberculosis; constant
cold taking; better in warm climate,

Heart.— Sensation as if heart were suspended.
Palpitation and burning in heart region. Weak, rapid
pulse; intcrmits. Threatened heart failure.

Back. — Great exhaustion. Stitches in region of
kidneys and right scapula. Small of back feels weak.
Stiffness and paralytic feeling in back. Burning in
spine. [Guaco.[ Severe backache during pregnancy,
and after miscarriage. Hip-disease. Pain in nates and
thighs and hip-joint. Lumbago with sudden sharp pains
extending up and down back and to thighs.

Extremities. — Backs and legs give out. Uneasiness,
heaviness, and tearing in limbs and jerking. Tearing
pain in limbs with swelling. Limbs sensitive to pres-
sure, White swelling of knee. Tearing in arms from
shoulder to wrist. Lacerating in wrist-joint. Paraly-
sis of old people, and dropsical affections. Limbs go
to sleep easily. Tips of toes and fingers painful. Soles
very sensitive. Itching of great toe, with pain. Pain
from hip to knee. Pain in knees,

* Skin. — Burning as from a mustard-plaster.
KALI CARBONICUM — KALI CHLORICUM 425

Sleep. — Drowsy after eating. Wakes about two
o'clock and cannot sleep again.

Modalities. — Worse, after coition; in cold weather;
from soup and coffee; in morning about three o'clock;
lying on left and painful side. Better, in warm weather,
though moist; during day, while moving about.

Relationship. — Complementary: Carbo; Nat. mur.
Follows Nux often in stomach and bladder troubles.

Compare: Kali salicylicum (vomiting, especially
of pregnancy; arteriosclerosis); Aalt silicum (gouty
nodosities) ; Kali accticum (diabetes, diarrhoea, dropsy,
alkaline urine, very much increased in quantity); Aalt
citricum (Bright’s disease—1 gr. to wine-glass of
water): Kali ferrocyanatum (physical and mental pros-
tration following infection. Inability to sustained
routine work. Use 6x. Uterine symptoms, like Sepia,
bearing-down sensation and yastric sinking; fatty heart) ;
Kali oxalicum (lumhago, convulsions) ;Kali picro-nitri-

~cum and Kali picricum (jaundice, violent cructations) ;

Kali suiphuratum (gastritis, hiccough, redness of face) ;
Kali tartaricum (paraplegia); Kali telluricum (gar-
licky odor of breath, salivation, swollen tongue). Also
compare: Calc.; Ammon. phos.; Phos.; Lycop.; Bry.;
Natrum; Stann.; Sepio.

Antidotes: Camph.; Coffea.

Dose. — Thirtieth and higher. Sixth trit. Do not
repeat too often. Use cautiously in old gouty cases, ad-
vanced Bright's and tuberculosis.

KALI CHLORICUM
(Chlorate of Potassium)

Acts very destructively upon the kidneys, producing
a croupous nephritis, haemoglobinuria, ete. Produces
most acute ulcerative and follicular stomatitis. Noma.
426 KALI CHLORICUM — KALI CYANATUM

Toxemic conditions of pregnancy (urinary symptoms).
Chronic nephritis; hepatitis.

Mouth. — Profuse secretion of acid saliva. Whole
mucous surface red, tumid, with gray-based ulcers.
Tongue swollen.

Stomach. — Feeling of weight in epigastric and um-
bilical region. Flatulence. Vomiting of greenish-black
matter.

Stool. — Diarrhcea; profuse, greenish mucus,

Urine. — Albuminous, scanty, suppressed. Hema-
turia. diuresis. Nucleo-albumin and bile, high Phos-
phoric acid, with low total solids.

Skin. — Jaundice. Itching miliary or papular erup-
tions. Discolored; chocolate tint.

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

KALI CYANATUM
(Potassium Cyanide)

Cancer of tongue and agonizing neuralgia have been
benefited by this drug. Aqueous solution prevents
spread of small-pox.

Tongue. — Ulcer of tongue, with indurated edges.
Speech difficult.

Face. — Severe neuralgia in temporal region, recur-
ring daily at same hour. Pain in orbital and supra-
maxillary region, with screaming and loss of con-
sciousness.

Respiratory. — Cough prevents sleep; respiration
weak; cannot take deep breath.

Modalities. — IV’urse, from 4 a.m. to 4 P.M.

Relationship.— Compare: Platin.; Stann.; Cedron;
Mezern; Mur. ac.

Dose. —- Third centesimal trituration.
426 KALI CHLORICUM — KALI CYANATUM

Toxemic conditions of pregnancy (urinary symptoms).
Chronic nephritis; hepatitis.

Mouth. — Profuse secretion of acid saliva. Whole
mucous surface red, tumid, with gray-based ulcers.
Tongue swollen.

Stomach. — Feeling of weight in epigastric and um-
bilical region. Flatulence. Vomiting of greenish-black
matter.

Stool. — Diarrhcea; profuse, greenish mucus,

Urine. — Albuminous, scanty, suppressed. Hema-
turia. diuresis. Nucleo-albumin and bile, high Phos-
phoric acid, with low total solids.

Skin. — Jaundice. Itching miliary or papular erup-
tions. Discolored; chocolate tint.

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

KALI CYANATUM
(Potassium Cyanide)

Cancer of tongue and agonizing neuralgia have been
benefited by this drug. Aqueous solution prevents
spread of small-pox.

Tongue. — Ulcer of tongue, with indurated edges.
Speech difficult.

Face. — Severe neuralgia in temporal region, recur-
ring daily at same hour. Pain in orbital and supra-
maxillary region, with screaming and loss of con-
sciousness.

Respiratory. — Cough prevents sleep; respiration
weak; cannot take deep breath.

Modalities. — IV’urse, from 4 a.m. to 4 P.M.

Relationship.— Compare: Platin.; Stann.; Cedron;
Mezern; Mur. ac.

Dose. —- Third centesimal trituration.
KALI HYDRIODICUM 427

KALI HYDRIODICUM
(Iodide of Potassium)

The profuse, watery, acrid coryza that the drug pro-
duces serves as a sure guiding symptom, especially when
associated with pain in frontal sinus. It acts promi-
nently on fibrous and connective tissues, producing in-
filtration, cedema, etc. Glandular swellings. Purpura
and hemorrhagic diathesis. Syphilis may be indicated
in all stages: 1. In acute form with evening remitting
fever, going off in nightly perspiration. 2. Second
stage, mucous membranes and skin ulcerations. 3. Ter-
tary symptoms; nodes. Give material doses only.

Mind. — Sad, anxious; harsh temper. Irritable; con-
gestion to head, heat and throbbing.

Head. — Pain through sides of head. Violent head-
ache. Cranium swells up in hard lump. Pain intense
over eyes and root of nose. Brain feels enlarged. Hard
nodes, with severe pain. Facial neuralgia. Lancinating
pain in upper jaw.

Nose. — Red, swollen. Tip of nose red; profusc, acrid,
hot, watery, thin discharge. Ozena, with perforated
septum. Sneezing. Nasal catarrh, involving frontal
sinus. Stuffiness and dryness of nose, without dis-
charge. Profuse, cool, greenish, unirritating discharges.

Eyes. — Conjunctiva-red, injected; profuse lachry-
mation. Syphilitic iritis. Pustular keratitis and chemosis.
Bony tumors of the orbit.

Ear. — Noises in ear. Boring pain in ears.

Stomach. — Saliva increased. Faintness at epigas-
trium. Cold food and drink, especially milk, aggra-
vate. Much thirst. Throbbing, painful burning. Flatu-
lence.
428 KALI HYDRIODICUM

Female.— Menses late, profuse. During menses
uterus feels as if squeezed. Corrosive leucorrheea, with
subacute inflammatory conditions of the womb in young
married women.

Respiratory. — Violent cough; worse in morning.
Pulmonary cedema. Larynx feels raw. Laryngeal
cedema. Awakes choking. Expectoration like soap-
suds, greenish. Pneumonia, when hepatization com-
mences. Pneumococcic meningitis. Stitching pains
through lungs to back. Asthma. Dyspnoea on ascend-
ing, with pain in heart. Hydrothorax. [Merc. sulph.]
Pleuritic effusion. Cold travels downward to chest.

Extremities. — Severe bone-pains, Periosteum thick-
ened, especially tibia; sensitive to touch. [ Kali b.;
«lsaf.] Rheumatism; pains worse at night and in damp
weather. Contraction of joints. Rheumatism of knees
with effusion. Pain in small of back aud coccyx. Pain
in hip, forcing limping. Sciatica; cannot stay in bed;
worse at night and lying on affected side. Formication
of lower extremities when sitting, better lying down.

Skin. -- Purple spots; worse on legs. Acne, hydroa.
Small boils. Glands enlarged, indurated. Hives. Rough
nodules all over, worse any covering; heat of body in-
tense. Fissured anus of infants. Tendency to edema-
tous swellings, eyelids, mouth, uvula, etc. Acne rosacea.

Modalities. — !Vorse, warm clothing, warm room, at
night, damp weather. #elter, motion, open air.

Relationship. — Antidote: Hepar.

Compare: Jod., Mercur.; Sulph.; Mezer. Chopheence,
a Hindoo remedy for syphilitic eruptions, ulcerations
and bone-pains. Used im tincture.

Dose. — Crude drug, in material officinal dosage and
when strictly homceopathically indicated, as in acute
respiratory affections the third potency.
KALI MURIATICUM 429

KALI MURIATICUM
(Chloride of Potassium)

Although not proven, this remedy has a wide clinical
use, through its introduction by Schuessler. It cer-
tainly is of great value in catarrhal affections, in sub-
acute inflammatory states, fibrinous exudations, and
glandular swellings. White or gray coating of base of
tongue, and expectoration of thick, white phlegm, seem
to be special! guiding symptoms,

Head. —- Imagincs he must starve. Headache, with
vomiting. Crusta lactea. Dandruff.

Eyes. —- White mucus, purulent scabs. Superficial
ulcer. Trachoma.

Ears. — Chronic, cutarrhal conditions of the middle
ear. Glands about the ear swollen. Snapping and
noiscs in the ear.

Nose. — Catarrh; phlegm white, thick. Vault of
pharynx covered with adherent crusts. Stuffy cold.
Nosebleed. [Arn.; Bry.] ;

Face. — Cheek swollen and painful.

Mouth. — Aphthz; thrush; white ulcers in mouth.
Swollen glands about jaw and neck. Coating of tongue
grayish-white, dryish, or slimy.

Throat. — Follicular tonsillitis. Tonsils inflamed; en-
larged so much, can hardly breathe. Grayish patches
or spots in the throat and tonsils. Adherent crusts in
vault of pharynx. “Hospital” sore throat.

Stomach. — Fatty or rich food causes indigestion.
Vomiting of white, opaque mucus; water gathers in the
mouth. Pain in the stomach, with constipation. Buli-
mia; hunger disappears by drinking water.

Abdomen. — Abdominal tenderness and swelling.
Flatulence. Thread-worms, causing itching at the anus.
430 KALI MURIATICUM

Stool. — Constipation; light-colored stools. Diar-
rhea, after fatty food; clay-colored, white, or slimy
stools. Dysentery; purging, with slimy stools. [7/@mor-
rhoids; bleeding; blood dark and thick; fibrinous,
clotted.

Female. — Menstruation too late or suppressed,
checked or too early; excessive discharge; dark-clotted.
or tough, black blood, like tar. [Plat.] Leucorrhcea ;
discharge of milky-white mucus, thick, non-irritating,
bland. Morning sickness, with vomiting of white
phlegm. Bunches in breast feel quite soft and are
tender.

Respiratory Organs.— Loss of voice; hoarseness.
Asthma, with gastric derangements; mucus white and
hard to cough up. Loud, noisy stomach cough; cough
short, acute, and spasmodic, like whooping-cough; ex-
pectoration thick and white. Rattling sounds of air
passing through thick, leuacicus mucus in the bronchi;
difficult to cough up.

Back and Extremities. — Rheumatic fever; exudation
and swelling around the joints. Rheumatic pains felt
only during motion, or increased by it. Nightly rheu-
matic pains; worse from warmth of bed; lightning-like
from small of back to feet; must get out of bed and
sit up. Hands get stiff while writing.

Skin. -—- Acne, erythema, and eczema, with vesicles
containing thick, white contents. Dry, flour-like scales
on the skin. [Arsenic.]

Modalities. — Worse, rich food, fats, motion.

Relationship.—Compare : Kino — (otorrheea, with
stitghes in right ear); Bry.; Mercur.; Puls.; Sulph.
#Bose.— Third to twelfth potency.
KALI NITRICUM 431

KALI NITRICUM —NITRUM
(Nitrate of Potassium — Saltpeter)

Often indicated in asthma, also valuable in cardiac
asthma; of great value in sudden dropiscal swellings
over the whole body. Gastro-intestinal inflammation,
with much debility, and relapses in phthisis, call for
this remedy. Suppurative nephritis.

Head. — Scalp very sensitive. Headache, with ver-
tigo, as if falling to right side and backwards; worse,
stooping, Ennui.

Eyes. -—— Vision becomes clouded. Turbid corpus
vitreum. [Arn.; Ham.; Solan. n.; Phos.| Variegated-
colored rings before eyes. Burning and lachrymation.

Nose. — Sneezing. Swollen feeling; worse, right
nostril, Point red and itching. Polypus. [Sang. nit.]

Mouth. -— Tongue red, with burning pimples; burns
at tip. Throat constricted and sore.

Stool. — Thin, watery, bloody. Membranous shreds,
with tenesmus. Diarrhaa from eating veal,

Female. — Menses too early, profuse, black; preceded
and with violent backache. Leucorrheea. Burning pains
in the ovarian region only during menses. [Zinc.
after.]

Respiratory. — Hoarseness. Dry, morning cough,
with pain in chest and bloody expectoration. Bron-
chitis. Asthma, with excessive dyspnoea, nausea, dull
stitches, and burning in chest. Dyspnoea so great that
breath cannot be held long enough to drink, though
thirsty. Chest feels constricted. Oppression worse in
morning. Sour-smelling expectoration. Expectoration
of clotted blood, after hawking mucus Acute exacerba-
tions in phthisis; congestion of lungs. Spasmodic croup;
paroxysm of crowing. Laryngeal diphtheria
432 KALI NITRICUM — KALI PERMANGANICUM

Heart. — Pulse weak, small, thready. Violent stitch in
precordia, and beating of heart. F

Extremities. — Stitches between shoulder-blades.
Tearing and sticking in shoulders and joints. Hands
and fingers seem swollen.

Modalities. — Worse, eating veal; towards morning
and in afternoon. Better, drinking sips of water.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Opium; Nitr. sp. dulc.

Antidote to Opium and Morphine poisoning, 8-10
grains to glass of water.

Compare: Gun-powder (Nitre with sulphur and char-
coal—2x trit. Herpes facialis; crops of boils. Car-
buncles). Cannab, sat. (which contains a large amount
of Kali nit.). Lycop.; Sanguin.; Allium sat.; Antimon.
tod.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

KALI PERMANGANICUM
(Permanganate of Potassium)

Intense irritation of nose, throat, and larynx. Diph-
theria. Dysmenorrhoa. Bites of serpents and for other
animal poisons.

Respiratory. — Bleeding from nose. Nasal discharge.
Smarts and irritates. Constrictive, smarting sensation in
throat. Larynx feels raw. Short, hacking cough.

Throat. — Swollen and painful. Everything hawked
up streaked with blood. Posterior nares painful. Mus-
cles of neck feel sore. Swollen uvula. Fetor of breath.

Dose. — Locally, 1 dram to a quart of water, to correct
fetor in cancer, weer, vzena, and other foul odors.
Also as an injection in leucorrhoea and gonorrhoea. In-
ternally, 2x dilution in water Saturated solution lo-
cally in eruption of small-pox.
KAII PERMANGANICUM — KALI] PHOSPHORICUM 433

Potassium Permanganate for Morphine Poisoning —
Potassium permanganate is recognized as being the
most effective chemical antidote in cases of morphine or
Pium poisoning, acting directly on the morphine and
oxidizing it to less toxic substances. To be effective
the permanganate must come in direct contact with the
opium or morphine in the stomach; hypodermatic or
intravenous injections are absolutely useless, as the salt
would be decomposed by the blood serum at once. The
approved treatment is administration of two to five
grains of potassium permanganate in dilute aqueous
solution as soon as possible after the poison is taken,
this amount to be increased if very large doses of the
poison have been taken. Wahing out the stomach with
a quantity of 1 to 500 solution of permanganate is also
recommended, usug at least a pint of this solution
either by a stomach pump or by enforced vomiting
Permang.— Potash counteracts effects of alkaloids of
miany poisonous plants. Owing to its oxidizing powers
if given before the alkaloid has been absorbed. (Dr.
Chestnut in Dept. of Agriculture.)

KALI PHOSPHORICUM
(Phosphate of Potassium)

One of the greatest nerve remedies. Especially
adapted to the young. Marked disturbance of the
sympathetic nervous system. Conditions arising from
want of nerve power, neurasthenia, mental and physical
depression, are wonderfully improved by this remedy.
Besides, it corresponds to states of adynamia and de-
cay, gangrenous conditions. In these two directions it
has won many clinical laurels. After removal of can-
cer when in healing process skin is drawn tight over
the wound. (Eli G, Jones, M. D.)
434 KALI PHOSPHORICUM

Mind. — Anxiety, nervous dread, lethargy. Indisposi-
tion to meet people. Extreme lassitude and depression.
Very nervous; starts easily, irritable. Brain-fag; hys-
teria; night terrors. Somnambulance. Loss of mem-
ory. Slightest labor seems a heavy task. Great de-
spondency about business. Shyness; disinclined to con-
verse,

Head. — Occipital headache; better, after rising. Ver-
tigo, from lying, on standing up, from sitting, and when
looking upward. [Granat.] Cerebral anamia. Head-
ache of students, and those worn out by fatigue. Head-
aches are relieved by gentle motion. Headache, with
weary, empty, gone feeling at stomach. [Jgn.; Sep.]

Eyes. — Weakness of sight; loss of perceptive power ;
after diphtheria; from exhaustion. Drooping of eye-
lids. [Caust.]

Ears. —J/umming and bussing in the ears.

Nose. — Nasal disease, with offensive odor; fetid
discharge.

Face, — Livid and sunken, with hollow eyes. Right-
sided neuralgia, relieved by cold applications.

Mouth. — Breath offensive, fetid. Tongue coated
brownish, like mustard. Excessively dry, in the morn-
ing. Toothache, with easily-bleeding gums; they have
a bright-red scam on them. Gums spongy and reced-
ing. [Caps.; Haman.; Lach.]

Throat. — Gangrenous sore throat. Paralysis of the
vocal cords,

Stomach. — A nervous “gone” sensation at the pit of
the stomach. [Jgn.; Sep.; Sulph.] Feels seasick with-
out nausea.

Abdomen. — Diarrhcea; foul, putrid odor: occasioned
by .fright, with depression and exhaustion. Diarrhea
while eating. Dysentery; stools consist of pure blood;
KALI PHOSPHORICUM 435

patient becomes delirious; abdomen swells, Cholera;
stools have the appearance of rice water. [Vcrat.;
Ars.; Jatrop.] Prolapsus recti. [Jgn.; Pod.]

Female. — Menstruation tvo late or too scanty in pale,
irritable, sensitive, lachrymose females. Too profuse
discharge, deep-red or blackish-red, thin and not coagu-
lating ; sometimes with offensive odor. .

Male. -- Nocturnal emissions; sexual power dimin-
ished; utter prostration after coitus. [Aali carb.]

Urinary Organ:.—Enuresis. Incontinence of urine.
Bleeding from the urethra. Very yellow urine.

Respiratory. —- Asthma; least food aggravates. Short
breath on going upstairs. Cough; yellow expectoration.

Extremities. — Paralytic lameness in back and extrem-
ities. Exertion aggravates. Pains, with depression, and
subsequent exhaustion.

Fever. — Subnormal! temperature.
Modalities. — I’orse, eating, cold, carly morning.
*Better, warmth.

Relationship. — Compare: Kali hypophosph, (chronic
bronchitis where the expectoration is thick and fetid,
sometimes scanty and tough. Marked muscular de-
bility). Genista— Dyer's weed — (frontal headache
and vertigo, worse motion, better open air and eating.
Dry throat, awakes with waterbrash. Itching eruption
on elbows, knees and ankles. Promotes diuresis in drop-
sical conditions). MJacrozamia Spiralis. (Extreme de-
bility after severe illness; collapse. Weariness from no
assignable cause, no pains. Boring pain at vertex; vom-
iting and retching all night; impossible to open eyes,
giddiness and cold.) Zinc.; Gels.; Cimicif.; Laches.;
Mur. ac.

Dose.— Third to twelfth trituration. The highest
potencies seem to be indicated in certain cases.
436 KALI SULPHURICUM

KALI SULPHURICUM
(Potassium Sulphate)

Ailments accompanied by profuse desquamation. Ap-
plicable to the later stages of inflammation. Yellow
mucous and serous discharges. Has been found of
much use in oxaluria.

Head. — Rheumatic headache, begirining in evening.
Bald spots. Dandruff and scaldhead.

Ears.— Eustachian deafness. Discharge of yellow
matter. [Hydr.]

Nose. — Colds, with yellow, slimy expectoration. Nose
obstructed. Smell Jost. [Nat. mur.] Engorgement of
the nasal pharyngeal mucous membrane, mouth breath-
ing, snoring, etc., remaining after removal of adenoids.

Face. — Aches in heated room. Epithelioma.

Stomach. — Tongue coated yeilow and slimy. Insipid,
pappy taste. Gums paintul. Surning thirst, nausea,
and vomiting. Load feeling. Dread of hot drinks.

Abdomen. — Colicky pains; abdomen feels cold to
touch: tympanitic, tense. Yellow, slimy diarrhea. Cou-
stipation, with hemorrhoids. [Sulh.]

Male. — Gonorrhcea; discharge slimy, yellowish-green.
Orchitis. Gleet.

Female.-—- Menses too late, scanty, with feeling of
weight in abdomen. Metrorrhagia.

Respiratory.— Coarse rales. Ratiling of mucus in
chest. [Tart. em.]  Post-grippal cough, especially in
children. Bronchial asthma, with yellow expectoration.
Cough; worse in evening and in hot asmosphere.
Croupy hoarseness. [Hep.; Spong.]

',@@xtremities. — Pain in nape, back and limbs, worse in
warm room. Shifting, wandering pains.
436 KALI SULPHURICUM

KALI SULPHURICUM
(Potassium Sulphate)

Ailments accompanied by profuse desquamation. Ap-
plicable to the later stages of inflammation. Yellow
mucous and serous discharges. Has been found of
much use in oxaluria.

Head. — Rheumatic headache, begirining in evening.
Bald spots. Dandruff and scaldhead.

Ears.— Eustachian deafness. Discharge of yellow
matter. [Hydr.]

Nose. — Colds, with yellow, slimy expectoration. Nose
obstructed. Smell Jost. [Nat. mur.] Engorgement of
the nasal pharyngeal mucous membrane, mouth breath-
ing, snoring, etc., remaining after removal of adenoids.

Face. — Aches in heated room. Epithelioma.

Stomach. — Tongue coated yeilow and slimy. Insipid,
pappy taste. Gums paintul. Surning thirst, nausea,
and vomiting. Load feeling. Dread of hot drinks.

Abdomen. — Colicky pains; abdomen feels cold to
touch: tympanitic, tense. Yellow, slimy diarrhea. Cou-
stipation, with hemorrhoids. [Sulh.]

Male. — Gonorrhcea; discharge slimy, yellowish-green.
Orchitis. Gleet.

Female.-—- Menses too late, scanty, with feeling of
weight in abdomen. Metrorrhagia.

Respiratory.— Coarse rales. Ratiling of mucus in
chest. [Tart. em.]  Post-grippal cough, especially in
children. Bronchial asthma, with yellow expectoration.
Cough; worse in evening and in hot asmosphere.
Croupy hoarseness. [Hep.; Spong.]

',@@xtremities. — Pain in nape, back and limbs, worse in
warm room. Shifting, wandering pains.
KALI SULPHURICUM — KALMIA LATIFOLIA 437

Fever. — Rise of temperature at night. Intermittent
fever, with yellow, slimy tongue.

Skin. — Psoriasis. [Ars.; Thyroid.] Eczema; burn-
ing, itching, papular eruption. Nettle-rash. Polypi.
Epithelioma. Seborrheea. Favus. Ring-worm of scalp
or beard with abundant scales.

Modalities. — Worse, in evening, heated room. Beiter,
cool, open air.

Relationship.— Compare: Kali sulph. chromico,—
Alum of chrome —3x (affections of nasal fosse2 and
hay-fever. Chronic colds. Sneezing, red. watery eyes,
irritation of mucous membrane). Pulsat.; Kali bich.;
Nat. m.

Dose. — Third to twelfth potency.

KALMIA LATIFOLIA
(Mountain Laurel)

A rheumatic remedy. Pains shift rapidly. Nausea
and slow pulse frequently accompanying. Has also a
prominent action on the heart. In small doses, it ac-
celerates the heart’s action; in larger it moderates it
greatly. Neuralgia; pains shoot downwards, with numb-
ness. Fulgurating pains of locomotor ataxia. Protracted
and continuous fevers, with tympanites. Paralytic sen-
sations; pains and achings in limbs accompany nearly
every group of symptoms. Albuminuria.

Head. —Vertigo; worse stooping. Confusion of brain.
Pain in front and temporal region from, head to nape
and to teeth; from cardiac origin.

Eyes.— Vision impaired. Stiff, drawing sensation
when moving cyes. Rheumatic iritis.Y Scleritis, pain in-
creased by moving the eye.

Face.-— Neuralgia; worse right side. Stitches in
tongue. Stitches and tearing in bones of jaw and face.
438 KALMIA LATIFOLIA

Stomach. —- Warm, glowing sensation in epigastrium.
Nausca; vomiting. Pain in pit of stomach; worse by
bending forward; relieved by sitting erect. Bilious at-
tacks, with nausea, vertigo, and headache. Sensation
of something being pressed under the epigastrium.

Urinary. — Frequent, with sharp pains in lumbar re-
gion. Post-scarlatinal nephritis.

Heart.— Weak, slow pulse. [Dig.; Apoc. can.]
Fluttering of heart, with anxiety. Palpitation; worse
leaning forward. Gouty and rheumatic metastasis to
heart. Tachycardia, with pain. [Thyroid.] Tobacco
heart. Dyspnea. Shooting through chest above heart
into shoulder-blades. Frequent pulse. Heart's action
tumultuous, rapid and visible. Paroxysms of anguish
around heart.

Female. — Menses tvo early, or suppressed, with pain
in limbs and back and inside of thighs. Leucorrhea
follows menses.

Back. — Pain from neck down arm; in upper three
dorsa! vertebra extending to shoulder-blade. Pain
down back, as if it would break; in localized regions of
spine; through shoulders. Lumbar pains, of nervous
origin.

Extremities. — Deltoid rheumatism especially right.
Pains from hips to knees and feet. Pains affect a large
part of a limb, or several joints, and pass through
quickly. Weakness, numbness, pricking, and sense of
coldness in limbs. Pains along ulnar nerve, index finger.
Joints red, hot, swollen,

Sleep. — Sleepless, wakes very early in morning.

Modalities. — Worse, leaning forward [opposite, Kali
carb.]; looking down; motion, open air.

Relationship.— Compare: Derris pinuta (of great
service in neuralgic headaches of rheumatic origin).
KALMIA LATIFOLIA — KAOLIN — KOUSSO — KREOSUTUM 439

Compare: Spigelia; Pulsat.
Complementary: Bene. acid.
Dose. — Tincture, to sixth potency.

KAOLIN
(China Clay)

A remedy for croup and bronchitis.

Nose. — Itching and burning. Discharge yellow. Sore,
scabby, stopped up.

Respiratory. — Soreness of chest along trachea; can-
not stand percussion. Gray sputa. Capillary bronchitis.
Larynx and chest sore. Membranous croup — extends
down trachea.

Dose. — Lower triturations.

KOUSSO
(Hagenia Abyssinica)

A Vermifuge — Nausea and vomiting, vertigo, precor-
dial anxiety slowing and irregular pulse, subdelirium
and collapse. Rapid and extreme prostration.

KREOSOTUM
(Beechwood Kreosote)

Kreosotum is a mixture of phenols obtained from this
distillation,

Pulsations all over the body, and profuse bleeding
from small wounds. Very severe, old neuralgic affec-
tions; pains rather aggravated hy rest. Excoriating,
burning, and offensive discharges. Hzamorrhages, ul-
cerations, cancerous affections. Rapid decomposition of
fluids and secretions, and burning pains.. Overgrown,
poorly developed children. Post-climacteric diseases.
Tumefaction, puffiness, gangrene. Ailings of teething
children.
440 KREOSOTUM

Mental.— Music causes weeping and palpitation.
Vanishing of thought; stupid, forgetful, peevish.

Head. — Dull pain, as from a board pressing against
forehead. Menstrual headache. Occipital pain. [Gels.;
Zinc. pic.]

Eyes. — Salty lachrymation. Lids red and swollen.

Ears. — Eruption around and pimples within. Difficult
hearing and buzzing.

Face. — Sick, suffering expression; hot, cheeks red.

Mouth. — Lips red, bleeding. Very painful dentition;
child will not sleep. Very rapid decay of teeth, with
spongy, bleeding gums; teeth dark and crumbly.
[Staph.; Ant. c.]  Putrid odor and bitter taste.

Nose. — Offensive smell and discharge. Chronic ca-
tarrh of old people. Acrid rawness. Lupus. [4rs.;
X-ray.)

Throat. — Burning, choking sensation. Pulrid odor.

Stomach. -— Nausea; vomiting of food several hours
after eating; of sweetish water in the morning. Feeling
of coldness, as of ice water in stomach. Soreness; bet-
ter eating. Painful hard spot. Hzmatemesis. Bitter
taste after a swallow of water.

Abdomen. — Distended. Burning hemorrhoids. Diar-
rhoea; very offensive; dark brown. Bloody, fetid stools.
Cholera infantum in connection with painful dentition,
grecn stools, nausea, dry skin, exhaustion, etc.

Urine. — Offensive. Violent itching of vulva and
vagina, worse when urinating. Can urinate only when
lying; cannot get out of bed quick enough during first
sleep. Dreams of urinating. Enuresis in the first part
of night. Must hurry when desire comes to urinate,

Female. — Corrosive itching within vulva, burning and
swelling of labia; violent itching between labia and
thighs. During menses, difficult hearing; buzzing and
roaring; eruption after. Burning and soreness in ex-
KREOSOTUM 441

ternal and internal parts. Leucorrheea, yellow, acrid;
odor of green corn; worse between periods. Hemor-
rhage after coition. Menses too early, proloneed. |
Vomiting of pregnancy, with ptyalism. Menstrual flow
antermits [Puls]; ceases on sitting or walking; reap-
pears on lying down. Pain worse after menses. Lochia
offensive ; intermits.

Respiratory. — JJoarse, with pain in larynx, Cough;
worse evening, with efforts to vomit, with pain in chest.
Raw burning in chest; pains and oppression. Cough
after influenza. [Hriodyction.] Winter coughs of old
people, with heavy pressure on sternum, Gangrene of
lungs. After every cough, copious, purulent expectera-
tion. Hemoptysis; periodic attacks. Sternum feels
pressed in.

Back. — Dragging backache, extending to genitals and
down thighs. Great debility.

Extremities. — Pain in joiuts, hip and knee. Boring
pain in hip-joints. Scapule sore.

Skin. — Itching, worse tewards evening. Burning in
soles. Senile gangrene. Small wounds bleed freely.
[Crot.; Lach.; Phos.] Pustules and herpes. Ecchymo-
sis; dorsal surface of fingers and hands eczematous.

Sleep. — Disturbed with tossing. Paralytic sensation
in limbs on waking. Anxious dreams of pursuit, fire,
erections, etc.

Modalities. -—— ]7’orse, in open air, cold, rest, when
lying; after menstruation. Better, from warmth, mo-
tion, warm diet. .

Relationship. — Antidote: Nux. Inimical: Carbo,

Complementary in malignant diseases: Ars.; Phos.;
Sulph. In leucorrhoea compare Matico. Lippia Mexi-
cana (difficult, dry, deep, winter cough).

Guaiacol is the principal constituent of Kreosote, and
similar in action. Used in pulmonary tuberculosis.
442 KREOSOTUM — LABURNUM — LAC CANINUM

Compare also: Fuligo ligni; Carbol. ac.; Iod.; Laches.
Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency. The 200th in sen-
sitive patients.

LABURNUM
(Cystisus Laburnum)

Constant vertigo, intense sleepiness, vomiting, wide-
spread anesthesia, and convulsions are some of the
chief effects of this drug. Cerebro-spinal meningitis.
Great prostration, sense of constriction in throat, stiff-
ness of nape, tearing from nape into occiput, lustreless
eyes.

Head. — Stupefaction; indifference. [Phos. ac.] Un-
equally dilated pupils; giddiness; twitching of facial
muscles. [Agaric.] Hydrocephalus.

Stomach. — Excessive thirst. Constant nausea, vomit-
ing; burning pain in epigastrium.

Abdomen. — Tenesmus and erections. Grass-green
urine,

Extremities. — Numbness and pain in hands. Diffi-
culty in moving them.

Relationship. — Antidote: Coffee.

Compare: Nuz; Gels. Cystine (produces motor pa-
ralysis resembling that of curare).

Dose. — Third potency.

LAC CANINUM
(Dog’s Milk)

This remedy is of undoubted value in certain furius
of sore throat and diphtheria, and rheumatism. Cor-
responds to a low-vitiated, non-feverish type of sick-
ness, . The keynote symptom is, erratic pains, alternat-
ingistdes. Feels as if walking on air, or of not touch-
ing the bed when lying down. Great lassitude. Ozzena.
LAC CANINUM 443

Decided effect in drying up milk in women who cannot
nurse the baby. Great weakness and prostration. Sink-
ing spells every morning.

Mind. — Very forgetful; in writing, makes mistakes.
Despondent; thinks her disease incurable. Attacks of
rage. Visions of snakes. Thinks himself of little con-
sequence,

Head. — Pain first one side, then the other. Blurred
vision, nausea and vomiting at height of attack of head-
ache. Occipital pain, with shooting extending to fore-
head. Sensation as if brain were alternately contracted
and relaxed. Noises in ears. Reverberation of vuice.

Nose. — Coryza; one nostril stuffed up, the other free;
alternate. Ala nasi and corners of mouth cracked.
Bones of nose sore to pressure. Bloody pus discharged.

Mouth. — Tongue coated white with bright red edges;
profuse salivation. Drooling in diphtheria. Cracking
“of'jaw while cating. [Nit. ac.; Rhus.] Putrid taste in-
creased by sweets.

Throat. — Sensitive to touch. Painful swallowing;
pain extends to ears. Sore throat and cough with
menstruation. Tonsillitis and diphtheria symptoms
change repeatedly from side to side. Shining glazed
appearance of deposit. Stiffness of neck and tongue.
Throat feels burned raw. Tickling sensation causes con-
stant cough. Sore throat beginning and ending with
menses.

Female. — Menses too early, profuse, flow in gushes.
Breasts swollen; painful before [Calc. c.; Con.; Puls.],
and better or appearance of menses. Mastitis; worse,
least jar. Helps to dry up milk. Sinking at epigas-
trium. Sexual organs easily excited. Backache; spine
very sensitive to tauch or pressure. Galactorrhaa.
444 LAC CANINUM — LAC DEFLORATUM — LACHESIS

Modalities. — Worse, morning of one day and in the
evening of next. Better, cold, cold drinks.

Relationship. — Compare: Lach.; Con., Lac felinum
— Cat’s Milk — (ciliary neuralgia ; eye symptoms, photo-
phobia; asthenopia; dysmenorrheea) ; Lac vaccinum —
Cow’s Milk — (headache, rheumatic pains, constipation) ;
Lac vaccinum coagulatum — Curds — (nausea of preg-
nancy) ; Lactis vaccini floc — Cream — (diphtheria, leu-
corrhcea, menorrhagia, dysphagia) ; Lactic ac.

Dose. — Thirtieth and the highest potencies.

LAC DEFLORATUM
(Skimmed Milk)

A remedy for diseases with faulty nutrition; sick
headaches, with profuse flow of urine during pain. Car
Sickness.

Head.— Despondent. Pain begins in forehead to
occiput, in morning on rising. Intense throbbing, with
nausea, vomiting, blindness, and obstinate constipation ;
worse, noise, light, motion, during menses, with great
prostration, and better by pressure and bandaging head
tightly.

Stool. — Constipation. Stools hard, large, with great
straining ; painful, lacerating anus.

Relationship. — Compare: Colostrum. (Diarrhea in
infants. Whole body smells sour. Colic.) Nat. mur.

Dose. — Sixth, to thirtieth potency and higher,

LACHESIS
(Bushmaster or Surucucu)

Like all snake poisons, Lachesis decomposes the
blood, rendering it more fluid; hence a haemorrhagic
tendency is marked. Purpura, septic states, diphtheria,
ald other low forms of disease, when the system is
LACHESIS 445

thoroughly poisoned and the prostration is profound.
The modalities are most important in guiding to the
remedy. Delirium tremens with much trembling and
confusion. Very important during the climacteric and
for patients of a melancholic disposition. Ill effects of
suppressed discharges. Diphtheritic paralysis. [Botuli-
num.) Diphtheria carriers.

Mind. — Great loquacitv. Amative. Sad in the morn-
ing; no desire to mix with the world. Restless and un-
easy; does not wish to attend to business; wants to be
off somewhere all the time. Jealous. [Hyos.] Mental
labor best performed at night. Religious insanity.
[Verat.; Stram.] Derangement of the time sense.

Head. — Pain through head on awaking. Pain at root

of nose Pressure and burning on vertex. Waves of
pain; worse after moving. Sun headaches. With head-
ache, very pale face. Vertigo.
_ Eyes.— Defective vision after diphtheria, extrinsic
muscles too weak to maintain focus. Sensation as if
eyes were drawn together by cords which were tied in
a knot at root of nose.

Ears. — Tearing pain from zygoma into ear; also with
sore throat. Ear-wax hard, dry.

Nose. — Bleeding, nostrils sensitive. Coryza, preceded
by headache. Hay asthma; paroxysms of sneezing.
[Silica.; Sabad.}

Face.— Pale. Tritacial neuralgia, left side, heat run-
ning up into head. [Phos.] Tearing pain in jaw-bones,
[Amphisbena; Phos.] Purple, mottled, puffed; looks
swollen, bloated, jaundiced, chlorotic.

Mouth.— Gums swollen, spongy, bleed. Tongue
swollen, burns, trembles, red, dry and cracked at tip,
catches on teeth. Aphthous and denuded spots with
burning and rawness. Nauseous taste. Teeth ache,
pain extends to curs. Pain in facial bones.
446 LACHESIS

Throat. — Quinsy. Dry, intensely swollen, externally
and internally. Diphtheria; membrane dusky, blackish ;
pain aggravated by hot drinks; chronic sore throat, with
much hawking; mucus sticks, and cannot be forced up
or down. Very painful; worse slightest pressure, touch
fs even more annoying. Worse on left side. In diph-
theria, etc., the trouble began on the left side. Tonsils
purplish. Purple, livid color of throat. Feeling as if
something was swollen which must be swallowed; worse,
swallowing saliva or liquids. Pain into car. Collar and
neck-band must be very loose.

Stomach. — Craving for alcohol, oysters. Any food
causes distress. Pit of stomach painful to touch. Hun-
gry, cannot wait for food. Gnawing pressure made het-
ter by eating, but returning in a few hours. Terceptible
trembling movement in the epigastric region. Empty
swallowing more painful than swallowing solids.

Abdomen. — Liver region sensitive, cannot bear any-
thing around waist. Especially suitable to drunkards.”
Abdomen tympanitic, sensitive, painful. [Bell.]

Stool. — Constipated, offensive stool. Anus feels tight,
as if nothing could go through it. Pain darting up the
rectum every time he sneezes or coughs. Hemorrhage
from bowels like charred straw, black particles.
Hemorrhoids protrude, become constricted, purplish.
Stitches in them on sneezing or coughing. Constant
urging in rectum, not for stool,

Female. — Climacteric troubles, palpitation, flashes of
heat, hemorrhages, vertex headache, fainting spells;
worse, pressure of clothes. Menses too short, too
feeble; pains all relicved hy the flow. [Eupion.] Left
ovary very painful and swollen, indurated. Mamme in-
flamed, bluish. Coccyx and sacrum pain, especially on

tt ing irom sitting posture. Acts especially well at be-
ginning and close of menstruation,
446 LACHESIS

Throat. — Quinsy. Dry, intensely swollen, externally
and internally. Diphtheria; membrane dusky, blackish ;
pain aggravated by hot drinks; chronic sore throat, with
much hawking; mucus sticks, and cannot be forced up
or down. Very painful; worse slightest pressure, touch
fs even more annoying. Worse on left side. In diph-
theria, etc., the trouble began on the left side. Tonsils
purplish. Purple, livid color of throat. Feeling as if
something was swollen which must be swallowed; worse,
swallowing saliva or liquids. Pain into car. Collar and
neck-band must be very loose.

Stomach. — Craving for alcohol, oysters. Any food
causes distress. Pit of stomach painful to touch. Hun-
gry, cannot wait for food. Gnawing pressure made het-
ter by eating, but returning in a few hours. Terceptible
trembling movement in the epigastric region. Empty
swallowing more painful than swallowing solids.

Abdomen. — Liver region sensitive, cannot bear any-
thing around waist. Especially suitable to drunkards.”
Abdomen tympanitic, sensitive, painful. [Bell.]

Stool. — Constipated, offensive stool. Anus feels tight,
as if nothing could go through it. Pain darting up the
rectum every time he sneezes or coughs. Hemorrhage
from bowels like charred straw, black particles.
Hemorrhoids protrude, become constricted, purplish.
Stitches in them on sneezing or coughing. Constant
urging in rectum, not for stool,

Female. — Climacteric troubles, palpitation, flashes of
heat, hemorrhages, vertex headache, fainting spells;
worse, pressure of clothes. Menses too short, too
feeble; pains all relicved hy the flow. [Eupion.] Left
ovary very painful and swollen, indurated. Mamme in-
flamed, bluish. Coccyx and sacrum pain, especially on

tt ing irom sitting posture. Acts especially well at be-
ginning and close of menstruation,
LACHESIS 447

Male. — Intense excitement of sexual organs.

Respiratory. — Upper part of windpipe very suscepti-
ble to touch. Sensation of suffocation and strangulation
on lying down, particularly when anything is around
throat; compels patient te spring from bed and rush
for open window. Spasm of glottis; feels as if some-
thing ran from neck to larynx. Feels he must take a
deep breath, Cramp-like distress in precordial region.
Cough; dry, suffocative fits, tickling. Little secretion
and much sensitiveness; worse, pressure on larynx,
after sleep, open air. Breathing almost stops on falling
asleep. [Grind.] Larynx painful to touch. Sensation
as of a plug [.Lnac.] which moves up and down, with a
short cough.

Heart. — Palpitation, with fainting spells, especially
during climacteric. Constricted feeling, causing palpita-
tion, with anxiety. Cyanosis. Irregular beats.

Back. — Neuralgia of coccyx, worse rising from sitting
posture; must sit perfectly still, Pain in neck, worse
cervical region.

Sleep. — Patient sleeps into an aggravation. Sudden
starting when falling sleep. Sleepiness, yet cannot
sleep. [Bell.; Op.] Wide-awake in evening.

Fever. — Chilly in back; feet icy cold; hot flushes and
hot perspiration. Paroxysm returns after acids. Inter-
mittent fever every spring.

Skin. — Hot perspiration, bluish, purplish appearance.
Boils, carbuncles, ulcers, with bluish, purple surround-
ings. Dark blisters. Bed-sores, with black edges. Blue-
black swellings. Pyzmia; dissecting wounds. Purpura,
with intense prostration. Senile erysipelas. Wens.
Cellulitis.

Modalities. — Worse, after sleep, (Kali bich.) Lach-
esis sleeps info aggravation; left side, in the spring,
448 LACHESIS — LACHNANTES

warm bath, pressure or constriction, hot drinks. Better,
appearance of discharges, warm applications.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Ars.; Merc.; Heat; Alco-
hol; Salt.

Complementary: Lycop.; Hep.; Salamandra.,

Incompatible: Acet. ac.; Carb. ac.

Compare: Cotyledon (climacteric troubles) ; Nat. m.;
Nit, ac.; Crotal.; Amphisbena — snake lizard — (right
jaw swollen and painful, lancinating pains; headaches,
lancinating pains. Eruption of vesicles and pimples) ;
Naja; Scolo pendra — Centipede — (malignant pustule;
angina pectoris). Lepidium (affections of the breast,
heart, lancinating pains).

Dose. — Eighth to 200th potency. Doses ought not be
repeated too frequently. If well indicated, a single dose
should be allowed to exhaust its action.

LACIINANTES
(Spirit-weed)

Head, chest and circulation are affected. Bridge of
nose as if pinched. A remedy for torticollis, rheumatic
symptoms about neck. Tuberculosis — light-complex-
ioned people. Early stages, and established chest cases,
with much coldness. Produces a desire to talk —a flow
of language and the courage to make a speech.

Head. — Riffit-sided pain, extending down to jaw;
head feels enlarged; worse, least noise. Scalp painful.
Sleepless. Circumscribed red cheeks; scalp feels sore,
as if hair was standing on end; burning in palms and
soles.

Chest. -- Sensation of heat— bubbling and boiling
around heart region rising to head.

Back. — Chilliness berween the shoulder-blades; pain
‘and stiffness in back.
LACHNANTES — LACTICUM ACIDUM 449

Neck. — Drawn over to one side in sore throat.
Rheumatism of the neck. Stiffness of neck. Pain in
nape, as if dislocated.

Skin. — Body icy cold; face yellow, tendency to sweat.

Relationship. — Compare: Dulc.; Bry.; Puls.; also
Fel tauri (nape of neck pains, and great tension there).

Dose. — Third potency. Tincture in phthisis, unit
doses, once or twice a week, or three drops every four
hours.

LACTICUM ACIDUM
(Lactic Acid)

Morning sickness, diabctes, and rheumatism offer a
field for this remedy. Troubles in the breasts. Locally,
in the tuberculous ulceration of vocal cords.

Stomach. -- Tongue dry, parched. Thirst; voracious
hunger. Canker, copious salivation and water-brash.
Nausea; morning sickness, especially in pale, anemic
women. Hot, acrid eructation. Nausea; better, eating.
Burning, hot gas from stomach to throat, causing pro-
fuse secretion of tenacious mucus, worse smoking.

Throat. — Fullness or lump like a puff ball. Keeps
swallowing. Constricted low down.

Chest. — Pain in breasts, with enlargement of exillary
glands, and pain extends into hend.

Extremities. — Rheumatic pain in joints and shoulders,
wrists, knees, with much weakness. Trembling of whole
body while walking. Limbs feel chilly.

Urine. — Large quantities passed, frequently. Sac-
charine.

Relationship.— Compare: Sarcolactic acid q. v.
Lithia; Phos. ac. ,

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.
450 LACTUCA VIROSA

LACTUCA VIROSA
(Acrid Lettuce)

This remedy acts principally upon the brain and cir-
culatory system. Delirium tremens with sleeplessness,
coldness, and tremor. Hydrothorax and ascites. Im-
potence. Sense of lightness and tightness affecting
whole body, especially chest. Seems to be a true galac-
togogue.

Mind. — Stupefaction of sense. Great restlessness.

Head. — Dull, heavy, confused, dizzy. Heat of face
and headache, with general coldness. Headache, with
affections of respiratory organs.

Abdomen. — Sensation of weight, of fullness; bor-
borygmi; abundant emission of wind. Colic in early
morning, abdomen tense, relieved somewhat by evacua-
tion and passing of wind.

Chest. — Difficult breathing. Suffocative breathing”
from dropsy of the chest. Constant tickling cough. In-
cessant, spasmodic cough, as if chest would fly to pieces.
Squeezing sensation in lower chest.

Female.—- Promotes catamenia. Increase of milk in
breasts.

Sleep. — Restless; impossible to get to sleep. Deep,
comatose sleep,

Extremities. — Coldness and numbness of feet and
legs. Tremor of hands and arms.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Acct. ac.; Coff.

Compare: Nabalus—Prenanthes Serpentaria — Rat-
tlesnake root— White Lettuce, similar to Lactuca,
(chronic diarrhoea, worse after eating, nights and to-
qwards morning. Pain in abdomen and rectum; emacia-
LACTUCA VIROSA — LAMIUM — LAPIS ALBUS 451

tion. Constipation and somnolence; susceptible to aura
of others); Lach.; Kali carb.; Spiranthes (galacta-
gogue),

Dose. — Tincture.

LAMIUM
(White Nettle)

Has a special affinity for female and urinary organs.

Headache, with backward and forward motion of
head. Leucorrhoa and menses too early and scanty.
Hemorrhoids; hard stool, with blood. Sensation in
urethra as though a drop of water were flowing through
it. Tearing in the extremities. Hzmoptysis.

Dose. — Third potency.

LAPIS ALBUS
(Silico-fluoride of Calcium)

Affections of glands, gottre, pre-ulcerative stage of
carcinoma, Burning, stinging pain in breast, stomach,
and uterus. Connective tissue about glands specially af-
fected. Fat anemic babies with Iodine appetite. Rave-
nous appetite. Remarkably successful in scrofulous af-
fections, except in malarial cases. Uterine carcinoma.
Fibroid tumors with intense burning pains through the
part with profuse hemorrhage. Glands have a certain
elasticity and pliability about them rather than the stony
hardness of Calc, fluor. and Cistus.

Chest. — Persistent pains in mammary region. Gland-
ular hardening.

Skin. — Scrofulous abscesses and sores. Enlargement
and induration of glands, especially cervical. Lipoma,.
Sarcoma, carcinoma. Pruritus.
452 LAPIS ALBUS — LAPPA — LATHYRUS

Relationship. — Compare: Badtaga; Ars. iod.; Calc.
tod.; Con; Kal. tod.; Asterias.

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

LAPPA— ARCTIUM L
(Burdock)

Very important in skin therapeutics. Eruptions on
the head, face, and neck; pimples; acne. Styes and
ulcerations on the edge of the eyelids. Profuse and
frequent urination.

Extremities. — Pain in hands, knees, and ankles ex-
tending downward to fingers and toes. Pain in all
joints. Eruption on extremities.

Female. — Uterine displacements. An exceedingly
sore, bruised feeling in uterus, with great relaxation of
the vaginal tissues; apparently entire lack of tonicity
of pelvic contents. ‘Lhese symptoms all aggravated by-
standing, walking, a misstep, or sudden jar.

Dose. -—— Tincture, to third potency,

LATHYRUS
(Chick-pea)

Paralytic affections of lower extremities, with hyper-
zsthesia of the skin, aggravated by damp. Vertigo when
standing, with eyes closed. Great exaggeration of the
reflexes. Spastic paraplegia. Athetosis. Beri-beri. In-
fantile paralysis. After grippe and wasting and ex-
haustive diseases, wherc there is slow recovery of nerve
power.

Extremities. — Tremulous, tottering gait. Excessive
@gidity of legs; spastic gait. Cannot extend or cross
LATHYRUS — LATRODECTUS MACTANS 453

legs when sitting. Myelitis, with marked spastic symp-
toms. Rheumatic paralysis. Gluteal muscles and lower
limbs emaciated. Legs blue; swollen, if hanging down.
Stiffness and lameness of ankles and knees, toes do not
leave the floor, heels do not touch floor. Muscles of
calves very tense. Patient sits bent forward, straightens
up with difficulty.

Urine. — Increased ladder reflex. Frequent, must
hurry, else voided invcluntarily.

Relationship.-— Compare: Oaytrop.; Secale; 1q-
rostema githago — Corn-coenle —( Burning sensations, in
stomach, through cesopbagus intu throat, in lower ab-
domen and anus; nats.a, bitter vomiting, impaired
locomotion; difficulty in remaining erect; vertigo and
headache, burning from lower jaw te vertex)

Dose, — Third potency.

LATRODECTUS MACTANS
. (Spider)

A picture of angina pecicris is presented by the action
of this drug. The precordial region seems to be the
center of attack. Lowered coagulability.

Head. — Anxiety. Screams with pain. Pain in neck
to back of head.

Respiratory. — Extreme apnoea. Gasping respiration,
Fears losing breath.

Chest. — Violent, precordial pain extending to the
axilla and down the arm and forearm to fingers, with
numbness of the extremity. Pulse feeble and rapid.
Sinking sensation at the epigastrium.

Extremities. — Pain in left arm, feels paralyzed.

Skin.— Coldness of whole surface. Skin cold as
marble.
454 LATRODECTUS MACTANS — LAUROCERASUS

Relationship. — Compare: Latrodectus Hasselti—
New Sonth Wales Black Spider — (Long lasting effects
seem to indicate it as a “chronic” blood poisoning.-
Arrests intense pain in pyemia. Great oedema in neigh-
borhood of wound; paralysis of limbs, with great wast-
ing of muscles. Violent, darting, burning pains, pre-
ceding paralysis; vertigo, tendency to fall forward;
septicemic conditions; constant delusion of flying.
Loss of memory. Roaring noises.) Araneu; Mygale;
Theridion; Latrodectus Kalipo — New Zealand spider
— (lymphangitis and nervous twitchings, scarlet burn-
ing eruption.)

Dose. — Sixth potency.

LAUROCERASUS
(Cherry-laurel)

Spasmodic tickling cough, is often magically influ-
enced by this drug. Lach of reaction, especially in chest,
and heart affections. Drink rolls audibly through
@sophagus and intestines. General coldness, not
ameliorated by warmth. Violent pain in stomach with
loss of speech.

Fever. — Coldness; chills and heat alternate. Thirst,
with dry mouth in afternoon.

Respiratory. — Cyanosis and dyspnoea; worse, sitting
up. Patient puts hands on heart. Cough, with valvular
disease. Exercise causes pain around heart. Tickling,
dry cough. Dyspnoea. Constriction of chest. Cough,
with copious, jelly-like, or bloody expectoration. Small
and feeble pulse. Threatening paralysis of lungs.
Gasping for breath; clutches at heart.

Heart. — Mitral regurgitation. Clutching at heart and
palpitation. Cyanosis neanotorum.
LAUROCERASUS — LECITHIN 455

Sleep. — Spells of deep sleep, with snoring and ster-
torous breathing.

Extremities. — Toe and finger nails become knotty.:
Skin blue. Sprained pains in hips, thighs and heels.
Cold, clammy feet and legs. Clubbing of fingers. Veins
of hands distended.

Relationship. -— Compare: Hydrocy. ac.; Camphor;
Secale; Ammon, corb.; Ambra.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency. Cher:y-laurel
water, two to five drop doses.

LECITHIN

(A Phosphorus-containing Complex Organic Body
prepared from the yolk of egg)

Lecithin is important in the vital processes of plant and
animal organisms. Lecithin has a favorable influence
upon the nutritive condition and especially upon the
blood, hence its use in anemia and convalescence, neu-
rasthenia and insomnia.

Causes an immediate decrease in the excretion of
the phosphates. Found useful in faulty nutrition. Men-
tal exhaustion and impotency. Tuberculosis, causing
marked improvement in nutrition atid general improve-
ment. Tired, weak, short breath, loss of flesh; symp-
toms of general break-down. Sexually weak.

Mind. — Forgetful, dull, confused.

Head. — Aching, especially in occiput — pulsating and
ringing in ears. Pain in zygoma; face pale.

Stomach. — Loss of appetite, thirsty, craves wine and
coffee; bloated, sore pain in stomach rising toward
throat.

Urine. — Scanty, with phosphates, sugar or albumen.
456 LECITHIN — LEDUM

Sexual.— Male power lost or enfeebled. Anaphro-
disia and ovarian insufficiency.

\ Extremities. — Soreness, aching, lack of energy.
Tired and weak.

Relationship. — Compare: Phosphor.

Dose. — One-half to 2 grains of crude and potencies.
Twelfth potency.

LEDUM
(Marsh-Tea)

Affects especially the rheumatic diathesis, going
through all the changes, from functional pain to altered
secretions and deposits of solid, earthy matter in the
tissues. The Ledum rheumatism begins in feet, and
travels upward. It affects also the skin, producing an
eruption like Poison-oak, and is antidotal thereto, as
well as to stings of insects. There is a general lack of
animal heat, and yet heat of bed is intolerable. For
punctured wounds, produced by sharp-pcinted instru-
ments or bites, particularly if the wounded parts are
cold, this is the remedy.

Head. — Vertigo when walking, with tendency to fall
to one side. Distress when head is covered. Nose-
bleed. [Melilot.; Bry.}

Eyes. — Aching in eves. Extravasation of blood in
lids, conjunctiva, aqueous or vitreous. Contused
wounds. Cataract with gout.

Face. — Red pimples on forchead and checks; stinging
when touched. Crusty eruption around nose and mouth.

Mouth. — Dry, retching with cructation. Musty taste
with catarrhal atfection.

Respiratory. — Burning in nose. Cough, with bloody
expectoration. Dyspnea: chest feels constricted. Suf-
456 LECITHIN — LEDUM

Sexual.— Male power lost or enfeebled. Anaphro-
disia and ovarian insufficiency.

\ Extremities. — Soreness, aching, lack of energy.
Tired and weak.

Relationship. — Compare: Phosphor.

Dose. — One-half to 2 grains of crude and potencies.
Twelfth potency.

LEDUM
(Marsh-Tea)

Affects especially the rheumatic diathesis, going
through all the changes, from functional pain to altered
secretions and deposits of solid, earthy matter in the
tissues. The Ledum rheumatism begins in feet, and
travels upward. It affects also the skin, producing an
eruption like Poison-oak, and is antidotal thereto, as
well as to stings of insects. There is a general lack of
animal heat, and yet heat of bed is intolerable. For
punctured wounds, produced by sharp-pcinted instru-
ments or bites, particularly if the wounded parts are
cold, this is the remedy.

Head. — Vertigo when walking, with tendency to fall
to one side. Distress when head is covered. Nose-
bleed. [Melilot.; Bry.}

Eyes. — Aching in eves. Extravasation of blood in
lids, conjunctiva, aqueous or vitreous. Contused
wounds. Cataract with gout.

Face. — Red pimples on forchead and checks; stinging
when touched. Crusty eruption around nose and mouth.

Mouth. — Dry, retching with cructation. Musty taste
with catarrhal atfection.

Respiratory. — Burning in nose. Cough, with bloody
expectoration. Dyspnea: chest feels constricted. Suf-
LEDUM —LEMNA MINOR 457

focative arrest of breathing. Hzmoptysis, alternating
with rheumatism. Chest hurts when touched. Whoop-
ing-cough; spasmodic, double inspiration with sobbing.

Rectum. — 4zal fissures. Hamorrhoidal pain.

Extremities. — Gouty pains shoot all through the foot
and limb, and in joints, but especially small joints.
Swollen, hot, pale. Throbbing in right shoulder. Pres-
sure in shoulder, worse motion. Cracking in joints;
worse, warmth of bed. Gouty nodosities. Ball of
great toe swollen. [Bothrops.] Rheumatism begins in
lower limbs and ascends. [Kalmia opposite.] Ankles
swollen. Soles painful, can hardly step on them. [Ant.
c.; Lyc.) Easy spraining of ankle.

Fever. — Coldness, want of animal heat. Sensation as
of cold water over parts; general coldness with heat of
face.

Skin.—- Acne on forehead, sticking pain therein.

, Eczema (facial). Itching of feet and ankles; worse,
scratching and warmth of bed. Ecchymosis. Long dis-
coloration after injuries. Carbuncles. Antidote to Rhus
potsoning. [Grindel.; Cyprip.; Anac.]

Modalities. — Betier, from cold, putting feet in cold
water. Worse, at night, and from heat of bed.

Relationship. Compare: Ruta; Ham.; Bellis;
Arnica.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

LEMNA MINOR
(Duckweed)

A catarrhal remedy. Acts especially upon the nostrils.
Nasal polypi; swollen turbinates. Atrophic rhinitis.
Asthma from nasal obstruction; worse in wet weather.

Nose. — Putrid smell; loss of smell. Crusts and
458 LEMNA MINOR — LEPIDIUM — LEPTANDRA

muco-purulent discharge very abundant. Post-nasal
dropping. Pain like a string from nostrils to ear. Re-
duces nasal obstruction when it is an cedematous con-
dition. Dryness of naso-pharynx.

Mouth. — Putrid taste on rising in the morning. Dry
pharynx and Jarynx.

Abdomen. — Disposition to noisy diarrhoea.

Modalities. — Worse, in damp, rainy weather, espe-
cially heavy rains.

Relationship. — Compare: Dulc. (damp surroundings
and foggy weather). Calc.; Teucr.; Calend.; Nat.
sulph,

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

LEPIDIUM — LEPIDIUM BONARIENSE
(Cress — Brazilian Cress)

Affects the left side principally.

With heart symptuims, nambness and pain in left arm,
sensation of sinking in pit of stomach.

Left side of head, face, chest, hip to knee, all have
lJancinating pain.

A streak of pain from the temple to the chin, as if
the face were cut with a razor. Burning in throat, roar-
ing in ears. Sensation of a tight girdle around chest,
as cf a knife piercing the heart. Pain in neck, back,
and extremities. Compare: Arnica.

LEPTANDRA
(Culver’s Root)

A liver remedy, with jaundice and black, tarry stools.
Bilious states. F.nfeebled portal circulation.

Head. — Dull frontal pain; vertigo, drowsiness, and
depression. Smarting and aching in eyes.
LEPTANDRA — LILIUM TIGRINUM 459

Stomach. — Tongue coated yellow. Great distress in
stomach and intestines, with desire for stool, Aching
in region of liver extending to spine, which feels chilly.

Stool. — Profuse black, fetid stools, with pain at um-
bilicus. Bleeding piles. Typhoid stools turn black and
look like tar. Clay-colored stools with jaundic®

Relationship. — Compare: Podop.; Iris; Bry.; Merc.;
Ptel.; Myrica.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

LILIUM TIGRINUM
(Tiger-lily)

Manifests powerful influence over the pelvic organs,
and is adapted to many reflex states dependent on some
pathological condition of uterus and ovaries. More
often indicated in unmarried women. The action on
the heart is very marked. Pain in small spots. [O-xal.
ac.) Rheumatic arthritis.

Mind. — Tormented about her salvation. Consolation
aggravates. Profound dcpression of spirits. Constant
inclination to weep. Anxious; fears some organic and
incurable disease, Disposed to curse, strike, think ob-
scene things. <Aimless, hurricd manner; must keep busy.

Head. --- Hot, dull, heavy, Faint in warm room. Wild
feeling in head,

Eyes. — Hyperesthesia of retina. Pain, extending
back into head; lachrymation; and impaired vision.
Myopic astigmia.

Stomach. — Flatulent; nausea, with sensation of lump
in stomach. Hungry; longs for meat, Thirsty, drinks
often and much, and before severe symptoms.

Abdomen. — Abdomen sore, distended ; trembling sen-
460 LILIUM TIGRINUM

sation in abdomen. Pressure downwards and back-
wards against rectum and anus; worse, standing ; bet-
ter, walking in open air. Bearing down in lower part of
“abdomen.

Urinary. — Frequent urging. Urine milky, scanty,
hot.

Stool. — Constant desire to defecate, from pressure wm
rectum, worse standing, Pressure down the anus
Early-morning urgent stool. Dysentery; mucus and
blood, with tenesmus, especially in plethoric and nervous
women at change of life.

Heart. — Sensation as if heart were grasped in a vise.
[Cact.] Feels full to bursting. DPulsations over whole
body. Palpitation; irregular pulse; very rapid. Pain
in cardiac region, with feeling of a load on chest. Cold
feeling about heart. Suffocating feeling in a crowdcd
and warm room, [.lpis; Iod.; Lyc.; Puls.]

Female. — Menses early, scanty, dark, clotted, offen-
sive; flow only when moving about. Rearing-down sey-
sation with urgent desire for stool, as though all organs
would escape. Cceases when resting. [Sep.; Lac c.;
Bell.| Congestion of uterus, prolapse, and anteversion.
Constant desire to support parts externally. Pain in
ovaries and down thighs. Acrid, brown leucorrhcea;:
smarting in labia. Sexual instinct awakened. Bloated
feeling in uterine region. Sub-involution.

Extremities.. — Cannot walk on uneven ground, Pain
in back and spine, with trembling, but oftener in front
of a pressing-down character, Pricking in fingers. Pain
in right hip. Legs ache; cannot keep them still. Pain
in ankle joint. Burning palms and soles.

Sleep. — Unrefreshing, with disagreeable dreains, Un-
able to sleep, with wild feeling in head.

Fever. — Great heat and lassitude in afternoon, with
throbbing throughout body.
LILIUM TIGRINUM—LIATRIS SPICATA—LIMULUS 461

Modalities. — Ii’orse, consolation, warm room, Petter,
fresh air.

Relationship.— Compare: Cact.; Helon.; Murex;
Sep.: Plat.; Pallad.

Antidote: Helon.

Dose. — The middle and higher potencies seem to have
done best. Its curative action sometimes is slow in de-
veloping itself.

LIATRIS SPICATA — SERRATULA
(Colic Root)

A vascular stimulant. Increases functional activity of
the skin, mucous membranes.

Of use in dropsy due to liver and spleen diseases, also
renal dropsy. Tere the suppressed urination is most
favorably influenced. General anasarca due to heart and
kidney disease. Diarrhea, with violent urging and pain
in lower part of back. Colic. Locally. applied to ulcers
and unhealthy wounds.

A prompt diuretic.

Dose. — 1 to 4 drams of tincture or infusion,

LIMULUS. (XIPHOSURA)
(Horse-foot — King-crab)

Rush ot blood to face, Pressure above nose and he-
hind eyes. Painful fullness with coryza. Bodily and
mental depression; drowsiness, after sca bathing. Pain-
ful fullness of whole right side of body. Abdomen hot,
burning, constricted. Crural neuralgia. Soles of feet
ache, feel benumbed. Pain in right hip-joint. Itching
vesicles om fingers,

Relationship. — Compare: Asterias; Homarus; Cu-
prum.

Dose. — Sixth potency.
462 LINARIA — LITHIUM CARBONICUM

LINARIA
(Toad-flax)

Acts prominently within the domain of the pneu-
mogastrics, Eructation, nausea, salivation, pressure on
stomach. Enteric symptoms and great drowsiness very
marked. Cardiac fainting. Enuresis. Tongue rough,
dry; throat constricted. Coldness. Confusion in head.
Irresistible sleepiness. Symptoms worse walking in open
air. ;

Relationship. — Compare: Linum usitatissimum (asth-
ma, hay-fever, and urticaria. Trismus and paralysis of
tongue).

Dose. — Third potenicy,

LITHIUM CARBONICUM
(Carbonate of Lithium)

Chronic rheumatism connected with heart lesions and?
asthenopia offer a field for this remedy. Rheumatic
nodes.

Head. — Tension, as if bound; better, sitting and go-
ing out. Externally sensitive. Headache ceuses while
cating, Trembling and throbbing. Pain in heart; ex-
tends to head. Inspired air feels cold.

Eyes. — Half vision; invisible right half. Photophobia.
Pain over eyes. Dry lids,

Stomach. — Acidity, nausea, gnawing, rcliewed by cat-
ing. [Anacard.] Cannot endure slightest pressure of
clothes. [Laches.]

Urine.—Tenesmus. Jurhid urine, with mucus and
red deposit, Pain in region of right kidney. Free and
colorless. While urinating, pressure in heart. Cystitis,
subacute and chronic.
LITHIUM CARBONICUM 463

Respiratory. — Constriction of chest. Violent cough
when lying down. Air feels cold when inspired. Pain
in mammary glands, which extend into the arms and
fingers. ,

Heart. — Rheumatic screness in cardiac region.
Sudden shock in heart. Throbbing, dul! stitch in car-
diac region. Pains in heart before menses, and asso-
ciated with pains in bladder, and hefore and after
urinating. Trembling and fluttering in heart, extending
to back.

Extremities. — Paralytic stiffness all over. Itching
about joints, Rheumatic pains throughout shoulder-
joint, arm, and fingers. Pain in hollow of foot, extend-
ing to knee. Swelling and tenderness of finger and toe
joints; better, hot water. Nodular swellings in joints.
Ankles pain when walking.

pews oo

Skin. — Scabby, tettery eruption on hands, head, and
cheeks, preceded by red raw skin. Dull stitch, ending
in itching.

Modalities. — Worse, in morning, right side. Petter,
rising and moving about.

Relationship. — Compare: Lyc.; Ammon. phos.; Bens.
ac.; Cale.; Lithium chlor. (symptoms of cinchonism,
viz.: Dissy head, full, blurring of vision. Ringing in
ears; marked tremors; general weakness; marked mus-
cular and general prostfation; no gastro-intestinal ef-
fects. Nose sore, heartburn, pain in teeth). Lithium
lacticum (rheumatism of shoulder, and small joints re-
lieved by moving about; worse, resting). Lithium ben-
sotcum (deep-seated pains in loins; in small of back;
uneasiness in bladder, frequent desire. Diminishing
uric acid deposit).

Dose. — First to third trituration.
464 LOBELIA INFLATA

LOBELIA INFLATA
(Indian Tobacco)

Is a vaso-motor stimulant; increases the activity of
all vegetative processes; spends its force mainly upon
the pneumogastric nerve, producing a depressed relaxed
condition with oppression of the chest and episgastrium,
impeded respiration, nausea and vomiting.

Languor, relaxation of muscles, nausea, vomitng, and
dyspepsia are the general indications that point to the
use of this remedy, in asthma and gastric affections.
Best adapted to light-complexioned fleshy people. Bad
effects of drunkenness. Suppressed discharges. [Sulph.]
Diphtheria. Catarrhal jaundice, [Chionanth.]

Head. —Vertigo, and fear of death. Gastric headache
with nausea, vomiting, and great prostration, worse,
afternoon until midnight; tobacco. Dull, heavy pain.

Face. — Bathed in cold sweat. Sudden pallor.

Ears. — Deafness due to suppressed discharges or ec-
zema. Shooting pain from throat.

Mouth. — Profuse flow of saliva; acrid burning taste;
mercurial taste; tenacious mucus, tongue coated white.

Stomach. — Acidity, flatulence, shortness of breath
after eating. Heartburn with profuse flow of saliva.
Extreme nausea and vomiting. Morning sickness.
Faintness and weakness at epigastrium. Profuse sali-
vation, with good appetite. Profuse sweat and prostra-
tion. Cannot bear smell or taste of tobacco. Acrid,
burning taste; acidity, with contractive feeling in pit
of stomach. Flatulence, shortness of breath after eating.
[Carbo.] Heartburn.

Respiratory. — Dyspnau from constriction of chest;
worse, any exertion. Sensation of pressure or weight
in chest; better by rapid walking. Feels as if heart
LOBEITA INFIATA 465

would stop. Asthma; attacks, with weakness, felt in pit
of stomach and preceded by prickling ail over. Cramp,
ringing cough, short breath, catching at throat.

Back. — Dain in sacrum; cannot bear slightest touch,
Sits leaning forward.

Urinary. — Deep red color and copious red sediment.

Skin. — Prichling, itching with intense nausea,

Modalities. — Horse, tobacco, afternoon, slightest mo-
tion, cold, especially cold washing. Better, by rapid
walking (chest pain), toward evening, and from warmth.

Relationship. — Antidote: /pec,

Compare: Yabac.; Ars.; Tart. e.; Verat.; Rosa.

Lobelia syphilitica or cerulea (gives a perfect picture
of sneezing influenza, involving the posterior nares,
palate, and fauces. Very depressed. Pain in forehead
over eyes; pain and gas in bowels, followed by copious
watery stools with tenesmus and soreness of anus. Pain
in knees. Prickling in soles. Great opfression in lower
fort of chest, as if air could not reach there. Pain
in chest under short ribs of left side. Dry, hacking
cough. Breathing difficult. Dull, aching pain over root
of nose. Eustachian catarrh. Pain in posterior part of
spleen.) Lobelia erinus (malignant growths; colloid
cancer of the omentum; cork-screw-like pains in abdo-
men; great dryness of skin, nasal and buccal mucous
membranes; distaste for brandy; dry, eczematous patches
covering points of first fingers. Malignant disease of
the face. Epithelioma).

Dose. — Tincture, to thirtieth potency. Locally the
tincture is antidotal to Poison-oak. Often the Acetum
Lobelia acts better than any other preparation. Lobelia
hypodermically acts clinically almost precisely as the
antitoxin of diphtheria does upon the infection and
renders the system stronger to resist future infections
(F. Ellingwood).
466 LOBELIA PURPURASCENS —LOLIUM TEMULENTUM

LOBELIA PURPURASCENS
(Purple Lobelia)

Profound prostration of all the vital forces and of
the nervous system: respiratory paralysis. Nervous
prostration of influensa. Coma. Tongue white and
paralyzed.

Head. — Confused and depressed. Headache with
nausea, vertigo; especially between eyebrows. Cannot
keep eyes open; spasmodic closure of lids,

Chest. — Superficial respiration; heart and lungs
feel paralyzed; respiration slow. Heart beats sound to
him like boom of a drum.

Eyes. — Impossible to keep open. Drowsy.

Relationship—Compare: Baptisia; Lobelia cardmalis
(debility, especially of lower extremities; oppressed
breathing, pleurisy, sticking pain in chest on taking a
long breath. Pain in /cft lung, intermitting pricking
during the day).

Dose. -— Third potency.

LOLIUM TEMULENTUM
(Darnel)

TTas been made use of in cephalalgia, sciatica, paraly-
sis Prostration and restlessness

Head.— Anxious and depressed, confused. Ver-
tigo; must close eyes. Head heavy. Noises m cars.

Stomach. — Nausea, vomiting. Pain in pit of stom-
ach and abdomen. Severe purging.

Extremities. — Gait unsteady. Trembling of all limbs.
Loss of power in extremities. Violent pain in calves,
as if bound with cards. Cold extremities. Spasmodic
466 LOBELIA PURPURASCENS —LOLIUM TEMULENTUM

LOBELIA PURPURASCENS
(Purple Lobelia)

Profound prostration of all the vital forces and of
the nervous system: respiratory paralysis. Nervous
prostration of influensa. Coma. Tongue white and
paralyzed.

Head. — Confused and depressed. Headache with
nausea, vertigo; especially between eyebrows. Cannot
keep eyes open; spasmodic closure of lids,

Chest. — Superficial respiration; heart and lungs
feel paralyzed; respiration slow. Heart beats sound to
him like boom of a drum.

Eyes. — Impossible to keep open. Drowsy.

Relationship—Compare: Baptisia; Lobelia cardmalis
(debility, especially of lower extremities; oppressed
breathing, pleurisy, sticking pain in chest on taking a
long breath. Pain in /cft lung, intermitting pricking
during the day).

Dose. -— Third potency.

LOLIUM TEMULENTUM
(Darnel)

TTas been made use of in cephalalgia, sciatica, paraly-
sis Prostration and restlessness

Head.— Anxious and depressed, confused. Ver-
tigo; must close eyes. Head heavy. Noises m cars.

Stomach. — Nausea, vomiting. Pain in pit of stom-
ach and abdomen. Severe purging.

Extremities. — Gait unsteady. Trembling of all limbs.
Loss of power in extremities. Violent pain in calves,
as if bound with cards. Cold extremities. Spasmodic
LOLIUM TEMULENTUM —LONICERA—LUPULUS 467

motions of arms and legs. Cannot write; cannot hold

a glass of water. Trembling of hands in paralysis.
Relationship. — Compare: Secale; Lathyr; Astrag.
Dose. — Sixth potency.

LONICERA
(Fly-woodbine)

Convulsive symptoms, Albuminuria. Syphilis.

Head. — Congestion of head and chest: coma. Con-
traction of one pupil and dilatation of the other. Sopor,
eyes half open, red face.

Extremities. — Jerking of limbs. Trembling of
whole body. Violent convulsions. Limbs and head fall
over as if paralyzed. Extremities cold.

Relationship.-— Compare: Lonicera pericylmenum —
Honeysuckle —- (irritability of temper, with violent out-
burst [Crocus.]).

Dose. — Third to sixth potency.

LUPULUS — HUMULUS
(Hops)

Is a good remedy in unstrung conditions of the nerv-
cus system attended with nausea, dizziness, headache
following a night’s debauch. Infantile jaundice. Ure-
thral burning. Drawing and twitching in almost every
muscle, Nervous tremors; wakefulness and delirium
of drunkards. Giddiness and siupefaction. Slow pulse.
Perspiration profuse, clammy, greasy.

Head. — Morbid vigilance. Highly excited. Dull,
heavy headache with dizziness. Drawing and twitching
in every muscle.
468 LUPULUS — HUMULUS — LYCUPODIUM

Sleep, — Drowsy during the day. Sopor.
Male. — Painful erections. Emissions, depending on
sexual weakness and after onanism, Spermatorrheea.

Skin. — Scarlatina-like eruption on face. Feels like
insects crawling under skin; feels chapped, skin peels.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Coffea; Vinegar.

Compare: Nux; Urtica; Cannab.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency. Lupulin 1x trit.
(Best in seminal emissions.) Locally in painful can-
cers.

LYCOPODIUM
(Club Moss)

This drug is inert until the spores are crushed. Its
wonderful medicinal properties are only disclosed by
trituration and succussion.,

In nearly all cases where Lycopodium is the remedy,
some evidence of urinary or digestive disturbance wilF
be found. <A_ lithzmic-neurasthenic remedy. Lyco-
podium is adapted more especially to ailments gradually
developing, functional power weakening, with failures
of the digestive powers, where the function of the liver
is seriously disturbed. Atony. Mild temperaments of
lymphatic constitution, with catarrhal tendencies; older
persons, where the skin shows yellowish spots, earthy
complexion, uric acid diathesis, etc.; also precocious,
weakly children. Symptoms characteristically run from
right to left, acts especially on right side of body, and
are worse from about 4 to 8 p.m. In kidney affectiuns,
red sand in urine, backache, in renal region; worse be-
fore urination. Intolerant of cold drinks; craves every-
thing wirm. Best adapted to persons intellectually
keen, bu of weak, muscular power. Deep-seated, pro-
gressive, chronic diseases. Lithzmia. Marked regulat-
LYCOPODIUM 409

ing influence upon the glandular (sebaceous) secretions.
Pre-senility. Ascites, in liver disease. Lycop. patient is
thin, withered, full of gas and dry. Lacks vital heat;
has poor circulation. cold extremities.

Mind. — Melancholy; afraid to be alone. Little things
annoy. Extremely sensitive. Averse to undertaking
new things. Headstrong and haughty when sick. Loss
of self-confidence Hurried when eating. Constant
fear of breaking down under stress. Weak memory,
confused thoughts; spells or writes wrong words and
syllables. Failing brain-power. [Anac.; Phos.; Baryt.]
Cannot bear to see anything new. Cannot read what
he writes. Sadness in morning on awaking.

Head.— Shakes’ head without apparent cause.
Twists face and mouth. [Pressing headache on vertex;
worse from 4 to 8 p.M., and from lying down or stoop-
ing, if not eating regulatly. [Cact.] Throbbing headache
after every paroxysm of coughing. Headaches over
‘eyes in severe colds. [Sulph.] Vertigo in morning on
rising. Pain in temples, as if they were screwed to-
ward each other. Tearing pain in occiput; better, fresh
air. Great falling out of hair. Eczema; moist oozing
behind ears. Deep furrows on forehead. Premature
baldness and gray hair,

Eyes. — Styes on lids near internal canthus. Day-
blindness. [Bothrops.] Night-blindness more charac-
teristic. Sees only one-half of an object. Ulceration
and redness of lids.

Ears. — Thick, yellow, offensive discharge. Eczema
about and behind ears. Otorrhcea and deafness with or
without tinnitus; after scarlatina. Humming and roar-
ing with hardness of hearing; every noise causes pe-
culiar echo in ear.

Nose. — Sense of smell very acute. Feeling of dry-
ness posteriorly. Scanty excoriating, discharge an-
470 LYCOPODIUM

teriorly. Ulcerated nostrils. Crusts and elastic plugs.
[Kal. b.; Teuc.] Fluent coryza. Nose stopped up. Snuf-
fles; child starts from sleep rubbing nose. Fan-like mo-
tion of ale nasi. [Kal. brom.; Phos.]

Face. — Grayish-yellow color of face, with blue cir-
cles around eyes. Withered, shriveled, and emaciated ;
copper-colored eruption. Dropping of lower jaw, in ty-
phoid fever. [lach.; Opium.] Itching; scaly herpes
in face and corner of mouth.

Mouth. — Teeth excessively painful to touch. Tooth-
ache, with swelling of cheeks; relieved by warm appli-
cation. Dryness of mouth and tongue, without thirst.
Tongue dry, black, cracked, swollen; oscillates to and
fro. Mouth waters. Blisters on tongue. Bad odor
from mouth.

Throat. — Dryness of throat, without thirst. Food
and drink regurgitates through nose. Inflammation of
throat, with stitches on swallowing; Detter, warm
drinks. Swelling and suppuration of tonsils. Ulcera-
tion of tonsils, beginning on right side. Diphtheria; de-
posits spread from right to left; worse, cold drinks.
Ulceration of vocal bands. Tubercular laryngitis, es-
pecially when ulceration commences.

Stomach. —- Dyspepsia due to farinaceous and fer-
mentable food. Excessive hunger. Aversion to bread,
etc. Desire for sweet things. Food tastes sour. Sour
eructations. Great weakness of digestion. Bulimia, with
much bloating. After eating, pressure in stomach, with
bitter taste in mouth. Eating ever so little creates full-
ness. Cannot eat oysters. Rolling of flatulence. [Chin.;
Carb.] Wakes at night feeling hungry. Hiccough.
[Sulph. ac.; Hyos.] Incomplete burning eructations
rise only to pharynx, there burn for hours. Likes to
take food and drink hot.
LYCOPODIUM 471

Abdomen. — Immediately afer a light meal, abdo-
men is bloated, full. Constant sense of fermentation in
abdomen, like yeast working; upper left side. Hernia,
right. side. Liver sensitive. Brown spots on abdomen.
Dropsy, due to hepatic disease. Hepatitis, atrophic
form of nutmeg liver. Pain shooting across lower ab-
domen from right to left.

Stool. — Diarrhea. Inactive intestinal canal. In-
effectual urging. Stool hard, difficult, small, incom-
plete. Hamorrhoids; very painful to touch, aching.
[Mur. ac.]

Urine. — Pain in back before urinating; ceases after
flow; slow in coming, must strain. Retention. Polyuria
during the night. Heavy red sediment. Child cries be-
fore urinating. [Bor.]

Male.— No erectile power; impotence. Premature

emission, [Calad.; Scl.; Acn.] Enlarged, prostate.
Condylomata.
* Female. — Menses too late; last too long. Vagina
dry. Coition painful. [Argy.n.; Berb.; Kreos.] Right
ovarian pain. Varicose veins of pudenda. Leucorrheea,
with burning in vagina. Discharge of blood from geni-
tals during stool. .

Respiratory. — Tickling cough. Dyspnea. Tensive,
constrictive, burning pain in chest. Cough worse going
down hill. Cough deep, hollow. Expectorations gray,
purulent, salty. [Ars.;°Phos.; Puls.) Night cough,
tickling as from Sulphur fumes. Catarrh of the chest
in infants, seems full of mucus rattling. Neglected
pneumonia. Left-sided pneumonia.

Heart. — Aneurism. [Baryta carb.] Aortic disease.
Palpitation at night. Cannot lie on left side,

Back. — Burning between scapule. Pain in small of
back.
472 LYCOPODIUM

Extremities. — Tearing in shoulder and elbow
joints. One foot hot, the other cold. Chronic gout,
with chalky deposits in joints. Profuse sweat of the
feet. Pain in heel on treading as from a pebble. [Hep.]
Toes and fingers contracted. Sciatica, worse right side.
Cannot lie on painful side. Hands and feet numb. Right
foot hot, left cold. Cramps in calves and toes at night
in bed.

Fever. — Chill between 3 and 4 p.m., followed by
sweat. Icy coldness. Sweat from least exertion.
{Calc.; Sil.; Hep.]

Sleep. — Drowsy during day. Starting in sleep.
Dreams of accidents.

Skin. — Ulcerates. Abscesses beneath skin; worse
warm applications. Hives; worse, warmth. Violent
itching; Fissured eruptions. Acne. Chronic eczema
associated with. usginary, gastric and hepatic disorders;
bleeds easily. Skin hecomes thick and indurated. Vari-
cose veins, nevi, erectric tumors. Brown spots, frecklés
worse on left side of face and nose. Dry, shrunken,
especially palms; hair becomes prematurely gray.
Dropsies. Offensive secretions; viscid and offensive
perspiration. Psoriasis.

Modalities. — Worse, right side, from right to left,
from above downward, 4 to 8 ».m. Warm applications,
lying on left side, heat, hot air, hot bed. Better, by
motion, after midnight, from warm food and drink, on
getting cold, from being uncovered; heat of bed.

Relationship. — Complementary: Lycop. acts with
special benefit after Calcar. and Sulphur. Tod.; Graph-
ites; Lach.; Chelidon.

Antidotes: Camph.; Puls.; Caust.

Compare: Alumina, (Lycop. is the only vegetable that
takes up aluminum. F. K. Allen.) Ant. c.; Nat. m.;
LYCOPODIUM — LYCOPUS VIRGINICUS 473

Bry.; Nux; Bothrops (day-blindness; can scarcely ‘see
after sunrise; pain in right great toe). Hydrast. follows
Lycop. in indigestion.

Dose. — Both the lower and the highest potencies‘
are credited with excelient results. For purposes of
aiding elimination the second and third attenuation of
the Tincture, a few drops, 3 times a day, have proved
efficacious, otherwise the 6th to 200th potency, and
higher, in not too frequent doses.

LYCOPUS VIRGINICUS
(Bugle-weed)

Lowers the blood pressure, reduces the rate of the
heart ande increases the length of systole to a great
degree. (Hinsdale.)

A heart remedy, and of use in exophthalmic goitre
and hemorrhoidal bleeding. Indicated in diseases with
tumultuous action of the heart and more or less pain.
Hamoptysis due to valvular heart disease.

Head.— Frontal headache; worse, frontal emi-
nences; often succeeded by labored heart. Nosebleed.

Eyes. — Protrusion, pressing, outward, with tumul-
tuous action of heart. Supraorbital pain, with aching
in testicles,

Mouth. — Toothache in lower molars.

Heart. — Precordial’ pain; constriction, tenderness,
pulse, weak, irregular, intermittent, tremulous, rapid.
Cyanosis. Heart’s action tumultuous and forcible. Pal-
pitation from nervous irritation, with oppression around
heart. Rheumatoid, flying pains, associated with heart
disease, . :

Respiratory. — Wheezing, Cough, with hemoptysis.

Urine. — Profuse flow of limpid, watery urine, es-
pecially when the heart is most irritable; also scanty
474 LYCOPUS VIRGINICUS — MAGNESIA CARBONICA

urine. Bladder feels distended when empty. Diabetes.
Pain in testicles.

Rectum. — Bleeding from rectum. Hemorrhoids.

Relationship. — Compare: Ephedra — Teamster’s Tea
— (in exophthalmic goitre; eyes feel pushed out with
tumultuous action of heart); Fucus; Spartein; Cra-
tegus.

Dose. — First to thirtieth potency.

MAGNESIA CARBONICA
(Carbonate of Magnesia)

Gastro-intestinal catarrh, with marked acidity. Often
used with advantage for complaints arising in people
who have been taking this drug to sweeten thé stomach.
Is frequently indicated in children; whole body smells
sour, and disposed to boils. Broken-down women, with
uterine and climacteric disoiders. With numbness and
distention in various parts and nerve prostration. Sen-
sitive to the least start, noise, touch, etc. Affections of
the antrum of Highmore. Effects of shock, blows, men-
ta! distress. Sense of numbness; nerve prostration;
tendency to constipation after nervous strain; sensitive
to least touch or from excess of care and worry with
constipation and heaviness. Intense neuralgic pains.

Head. — Sticking pain in the side of the head on
which he lies, as if the hair was pulled; worse, mental!
exertion. Itching of scalp worse in damp weather. Pain
above margin of right orbit. Black motes before eyes.

Ears. — Diminished hearing. Deafness; cames sud-
denly and varies. Numbness of outer car. Feeling of
distention of middle ear. Subdued tinnitus.

Face. — Tearing pain in ene side; worse, quiet; must

e about. Toothache, especially during pregnancy ;
worse at night; worse, cold and quiet. Teeth feel too
MAGNESIA CARBONICA 475

long. Ailments from cutting wisdom teeth. [Cheiran-
thus.) Pain in malar bone, worse during rest, night.
Swelling of malar bone with pulsating pain, worse
exposure to cold wind.

Mouth.— Dry at night. Sour taste. Vesicular
eruption; bloody saliva. Sticking pain in throat; hawk-
ing up fetid, pea-colored particles.

Stomach. — Desire for fruit, acids, and vegetables.
Eructations sour, and vomiting of bitter water. Crav-
ing for meat.

Abdomen. — Rumbling, gurgling. Dragging  to-
wards pelvis. Very heavy; contractive, pinching pain
in right iiiac region.

Stool. — Preceded by griping, colicy pain. Green,
watery, frothy, like a frog-pond’s scum. Bloody mu-
cous stools. Milk passes undigzsted in nursing children.
Sour, with tenesmus, [Rheum.] Constipation after
mental shock or severe nervous strain.

Female. — Sore throat before menses appear. Before
menses, coryza and nasal stoppage. Menses too late and
scanty, thick, dark, like pitch; mucous leucorrhea.
Menses flow only in sleep; more profuse at night
[4mm. m.], or when lying down; cease when walking.

Respiratory. — Tickling cough, with salty, bloody ex-
pectoration, Constrictive pains in chest, with dyspnea.
Soreness in chest during motion.

Extremities. — Tearing in shoulders as if dislocated.
Right shoulder painful, cannot raise it. [Sang.] Whole
body feels tired and painful, especially legs and feet.
Swelling in bend of knee

Skin. — Earthy, sallow and parchment-like; emacia-
tion. Itching vesicles on hands and fingers. Nodosities
under skin. Sore; sensitive tg: cold.

Fever. — Chilly in evening. Fever at night. Sour,
greasy perspiration,
476 MAGNESIA CARBONICA — MAGNESIA MURIATICA

Sleep. — Unrefreshing; more tired on rising than on
retiring.

Modalities. — MV orse, warmth of bed; change of tem-
perature; every three weeks; rest. Better, warm air;
walking in open air.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Ars.; Mere.

Complementary: Cham.

Compare: Rheum; Kreos.; Alocs; Cheiranthus —
Wall flower — (deafness, otorrhoea, nose stopped up
at night from irritation of cutting wisdom-tecth.)

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

MAGNESIA MURIATICA
(Muriate of Magnesia)

A liver remedy with pronounced characteristic con-
stipation. Chronic liver affections with tenderness ard
pain, extending to spine and epigastrium, worse after
food. Especially adapted to diseases of women, with a
long history of indigestion and uterine disease; chil-
dren who cannot digest milk. Evil effects of sea
bathing.

Head. — Sensitive to noise; bursting headache;
worse, motion, open air; better, pressure, and wrapping
up warmly. [Sil.; Stront.] Much sweating of head.
[Cale.; Sil.]

Nose, — Nostrils ulcerated. Coryza. Nose stopped
and fluent. Loss of smell and taste, following catarrh.
Cannot lie down, Must breathe through mouth.

Mouth. — Blisters on lips. Gums swollen, bleed
easily. Tongue feels buat and scalded. Throat dry,
with hoarseness.

Stomach. — Appetite poor, bad taste in mouth.
476 MAGNESIA CARBONICA — MAGNESIA MURIATICA

Sleep. — Unrefreshing; more tired on rising than on
retiring.

Modalities. — MV orse, warmth of bed; change of tem-
perature; every three weeks; rest. Better, warm air;
walking in open air.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Ars.; Mere.

Complementary: Cham.

Compare: Rheum; Kreos.; Alocs; Cheiranthus —
Wall flower — (deafness, otorrhoea, nose stopped up
at night from irritation of cutting wisdom-tecth.)

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

MAGNESIA MURIATICA
(Muriate of Magnesia)

A liver remedy with pronounced characteristic con-
stipation. Chronic liver affections with tenderness ard
pain, extending to spine and epigastrium, worse after
food. Especially adapted to diseases of women, with a
long history of indigestion and uterine disease; chil-
dren who cannot digest milk. Evil effects of sea
bathing.

Head. — Sensitive to noise; bursting headache;
worse, motion, open air; better, pressure, and wrapping
up warmly. [Sil.; Stront.] Much sweating of head.
[Cale.; Sil.]

Nose, — Nostrils ulcerated. Coryza. Nose stopped
and fluent. Loss of smell and taste, following catarrh.
Cannot lie down, Must breathe through mouth.

Mouth. — Blisters on lips. Gums swollen, bleed
easily. Tongue feels buat and scalded. Throat dry,
with hoarseness.

Stomach. — Appetite poor, bad taste in mouth.
MAGNESIA MURIATICA 477

Eructations like rotten eggs. Continued rising of white
froth into mouth. Cannot digest milk. Urine can be
passed only by pressing abdominal muscles.

Abdomen. — Pressing pain in liver; worse lying on
right side. Liver enlarged with bloating of abdomen;
yellow tongue. Congenital scrotal hernia. Must use
abdominal muscles to enable him to urinate,

Urinary. -~- Urine difficult to void. Bladder can
only be emptied by straining and pressure.

Bowels. — Constipation of infants during dentition;
only passing small quantity; stools knotty. like sheep's
dung, crumbling at verge of anus. Painful smarting
hemorrhoids,

Female.— Menses black, clotted. Pain in back and
thighs. Metrorrhagia; worse at night. Great excitement
at every period. Leucorrhcea with every stool and after
exercise. Tinea ciliaris, eruptions in face and forehead
worse before menses.

Heart. — Palpitation and cardiac pain while sitting;
better by moving about. (Gels.]

Respiratory. — Spasmodic dry cough; worse forepart
of night, with burning and sore chest.

Extremities. — Pain in back and hips; in arms and
legs. Arms “go to sleep” when waking in morning.

Sleep. — Sleep during day; restless at night on account
of heat and shock; anxious dreams.

Modalities, Worse, immediately after eating, lying
on right side; from sea bathing. Better, from pressure,
motion; open air, except headache.

Relationship. — Antidotes: Camph.; Cham.

Compare: Nat. m.; Puls.; Sep.; Amm. m.; Nastur-
tium aquaticum (cirrhosis of liver and dropsy).

Dose. — Third to 200th potency.
478 MAGNESIA PHOSPHORICA

MAGNESIA PHOSPHORICA
(Phosphate of Magnesia)

The great anti-spasmodic remedy. Cramping of mus-
cles with radiating pains. Neuralgic pains relieved by
warmth, Especially suited to tired, languid, exhausted
subjects. Indisposition for mental exertion. Goitre.

Mind. — Laments all the time about the pain. Inability
to think clearly. Sleepless on account of indigestion.

Head. — Vertigo on moving, falls forward on closing
eyes, better walking in open air. Aches after mental
labor, with chilliness; always better warmth.  [Sil.]
Sensation as if contents were liquid, as if parts of brain
were changing places, as of a cap on head.

Eyes. — Supraorbitai pains; worse, right side; re-
lieved by warmth applied externally. Increased lachry-
mation. Twitching of lids. Nystagmus, strabismus,
ptosis. Eyes hot, tired, vision blurred, colored lights
before eyes. ‘

Ears.— Severe neuralgic pain; worse behind right
ear; worse, by going into cold air, and washing face and
neck with cold water.

Mouth. — Toothache; better by heat and hot liquids.
Ulceration of teeth, with swelling of glands of face,
throat, and neck, and swelling of tongue. Complaints
of teething children. Spasms without febrile symptoms.

Throat. — Soreness and stiffness, especially right side;
parts seem puffy, with chilliness, and aching all over.

Stomach. — Hiccough, with retching day and night.
Thirst for very cold drinks.

Abdomen. — Entcralgia, relieved by pressure. Flatu-
lent colic, forcing patient to bend double; relieved by
rubbing, warmth, pressure; accompanied with belching
of gas, which gives no relief. Bloated, full sensation in
MAGNESIA PHOSPHORICA 479

abdomen; must loosen clothing, walk about, and con-
stantly pass flatus. Constipation in rheumatic subjects
due to flatulence and indigestion.

Female. — Menstrual colic. Membranous dysmenor-
rhea. Menses too early, dark, stringy. Swelling of ex-
ternal parts. Ovarian neuralgia. Vaginismus.

Respiratory. —- Asthmatic oppression of chest. Dry,
tickling cough. Spasmodic cough, with difficulty in ly-
ing down. Whooping-cough. [Corall.] Voice hoarse,
larynx sore and raw. Intercostal neuralgia.

Heart. — Angina pectoris. Nervous spasmodic palpi-
tation. Constricting pains around heart.

Fever. — Chilliness after dinner, in evening. Chills
run up and down the back, with shivering, followed by
a suffocating sensation.

Extremities. — Involuntary shaking of hands. Pa-
ralysis agitans. Cramps in calves. Sciatica; feet very
tender. Darting pains. Twitchings. Chorea. Writers’
and players’ cramp. Tetanic spasms. Weakness in
arms and hands, finger-tips stiff and numb. General
muscular weakness.

Modalities. — Worse, right side, cold, touch. Better,
warmth, bending double, pressure, friction.

Relationship. — Compare: Kali phos.; Colocy.; Silica;
Zine.; Diose.

Antidotes: Bell.; Gels ; Lach.

Dose. — First to twelfth potency. Sometimes the
highest potencies are preferable. Acts especially well,
given in hot water
480 MAGNESIA SULPHURICA

MAGNESIA SULPHURICA
(Epsom Salts)

The skin, urinary, and female symptoms are most
marked, The purgative action of Sulphate of Magnesia
is not a quality of the drug, but a quality of its physical
state, which renders its absorption impossible. The
properties inherent in the substance itself can only be
discovered by attenuation. (Percy Wilde.)

Head. — Apprehensive; vertigo; head heavy during
menses. Eyes burn, noises in ears.

Stomach. — Frequent eructations, tasting like bad
eggs. Rising of water in mouth.

Urinary. — Stitches and burning in the orifice of the
urethra after urinating. Stream intermits and dribbles.
The urine passed in the morning copious, bright yellow,
soon becomes turbid, and deposits a copious red sedi-
ment, The urine is greenish as passed; is of a clear
color, and in a large quantity. Diabetes. [Phos. ac.;'
Lact. ac.; irs. brom.]

Female. — Thick leucorrhcea, as profuse as the menses,
with weary pain in the small of the back and thighs,
on moving about. Some blood from the vagina between
the menses. Menstruation returned after fourteen days;
the discharge was thick, black, and profuse. Menses
too early, intermit.

Neck and Back.—Bruised and ulcerative pain be-
tween the shoulders, with a feeling as of a lump as
large as the fist, on which account she could not lie
upon her back or side; relieved by rubbing. Violent
pain in the small of the back, as if bruised, and as be-
fore menstruation.

Extremities. — The left arm and foot fall asleep in
bed, in the morning after waking.
MAGNESIA SULPH URICA — MAGNOLIA GRAND. 481

Skin. — Small pimples over the whole body, that itch
violently. Suppressed itch. [Sulph.] Crawling in the
tips of the fingers of the left hand; better on rubbing.
Warts. Erysipelas (applied locally as a saturated solu-
tion).

Fever. — Chill from 9 to 10 a. m. Shuddering in
back; heat in one part and chill in another.

Relationship, — Compare: Magnesia sulphitis (5-grain
doses, dark-red color, “beefsteak,” tongue).

Dose. — The pure salt to the third potency. Locally
1:4 in water in sep‘jc conditions, erysipelas, orchitis,
boils, etc.

MAGNOLIA GRANDIFLORA
(Magnolia)

Rheumatism and cardiac Jes‘ons are prominent feat-
ures in the symptomatology of this drug. Stiffness and
soreness. Alternating pains between spleen and heart.
Patient tired aud stiff. Soreness when quiet. Erratic
shifting of pains.

Heart. — Suffocated feeling when walking fast or ly-
ing on left side. Dyspnoea. Crampy pain in heart.
Angina pectoris. Endocarditis and pericarditis. Ten-
dency to faint. Sensation as if heart had stopped beating.
Pain around heart accompanied by itching of the feet.

Extremities. — Stiffness and sharp erratic pains;
worse in joints. Feet itch. Numbness in left arm.
Rheumatic pain in clavicles. Shooting in all limbs.

Modalities. — Worse, damp air, lying on left side; in
morning on first rising. Better, dry weather, motion;
intermenstrual flow. [Ham.; Bovista; Bell.; Elaps.]

Relationship. — Compare: Rhus.; Dulcam.; Aurum.

Dose. — Third potency.
482 MALANDRINUM — MANCINELLA

MALANDRINUM
(Grease in Horses)

A very effectual protection against small-pox. Ill
effects of vaccination. [Thuja; Silica.] Efficacious in
clearing of the remnants of cancerous deposits
(Cooper).

Skin. — Scab on upper lip, with stinging pain when
torn off. Aching in forehead. Dry, scaly; itching;
rhagadcs of hands and fect in cold weather and from
washing. Toes feel scalded and itch terribly. Bone-
like protuberances.

Dose. — Thirtieth potency and highest.

MANCINELLA
(Hippomane — Manganeel Apple)

Skin symptoms most marked. Dermatitis, with ex-
cessive vesiculation, on7ing of sticky serum and forma-
tion of crusts. To be remembered in mental depressed
states at puberty and at climacteric, with exalted sex-
uaiity. [Hering.] Loss of vision.

Mind. — Silent mood, sadness. Wandering thoughts.
Sudden vanishing of thought. Bashful. Fear of be-
coming insane.

Head. — Vertigo; head feels light, empty. Scalp
itches. Hair falls out after acute sickness.

Nose. — Illusions of smell; of gunpowder, dung, etc.
Pressure at root of nose.

Mouth.— Feels peppery. Copious, offensive saliva.
Taste of blood Burning of fauces. Dysphagia from
constriction of throat and cesophagus.

Stomach. — Continual choking sensation rising from
MANCINELLA — MANGANUM ACETICUM 483

stomach. Vomiting of ingesta, followed by griping and
copious stools. Burning pains and black vomit.

Skin. — Intense erythema. Vesicles. Fungoid growths.
Erysipelas. Large blisters, as from scalds. Heavy,
brown crusts and scabs. Pemphigus.

Relationship. — Compare: Croton; Jatropha; Canth.;
Anacard. ,

Dose. — Sixth, to thirtieth potency.

MANGANUM ACETICUM
(Manganese Acetate)

Manganum causes anemia with destruction of the
red corpuscles. Jaundice, nephritis with albuminuria.
Faity degeneration of liver.

Symptoms of chronic poisoning, according to Pro-
fessor von Jaksch, were involuntary laughter and in-
voluntary weeping and walking backwards. Strongly
exaggerated reflexes and physical disturbances, evi-
denced by men making fun of each other’s gait.

Inflammation of bones or’ joints, with nightly digging
pains. Asthmatic persons who cannot lie on a feather
pillow. Syphilitic and chlorotic patients with general
anemia and paralytic symptoms often are benefited by
this drug. Gout. Chronic arthritis. For speakers and
singers. Great accumulation of mucus. Growing pains
and weak ankles. General soreness and aching; early
tuberculosis,

Head. — Anxiety and fear; better lying down. Feels
large and heavy, with rush of blood; pain from above
downward. Field of vision contracted.

Mouth. — Nodes on palate. Toothache; worse, any-
thing cold. [Coff. opposite.] Hemming all the time.
[Arg. m.; Sil.)
484 MANGANUM ACETICUM

Nose. — Dry, obstructed. Chronic catarrh, with bleed-
ing, dryness; worse in cold damp weather.

Ears. — Feel stopped; cracking on blowing nose. Pain
from other parts extends to ears. Deafness in damp
weather.

Alimentary Canal.—Tongue sore and irritable with
ulcers or warts. Flatulence; chronic enlargement of
liver.

Respiratory. — Chronic hoarseness. Larynx dry,
rough, constricted. Tuberculosis of larynx. Cough;
worse evening, and better lying down. Mucus difficult
to loosen. Stitches in larynx extending to ear, Heat
in chest. Hzmoptysis. Every cold rouses up a bron-
chitis, [Dulc.]

Female. — Derangements of menstruation, amenor-
rhoea; menses too early and scanty, in anemic subjects.
Flushes of heat at climacteric.

Extremities. — Peculia: gail, walks ou metacarpo- .
phalangeal jcint; walks backwards. Ankles painful.
Bones very sensitive. Shiny red swelling of joints.
Knecs pain and itch. Rheumatism of feet. Intolerable
pain in skin of lower limbs. Burning spots about joints.
Periosteal inflammation. Suppuration of skin around
joints,

Sleep. — Vivid dreams. Sleepy very early in evening.

Skin. — Suppuration of skin around joints. Red, ele-
vated spots. Jtching; better, scratching. Deep cracks
in bends of elbows, etc. Psoriasis and pityriasis. Burn-
ing around ulcers. Chronic eczema associated with
amenorrhoea, worse at menstrual period or at meno-
pause.

Modalities. — Worse, cold wet weather, change of
weather. Better, lying down (cough).
MANGANUM ACET.— MANGIFERA IND.—MEDOR. 485

Relationship. — Compare: Colloidal Manganese (Boils
and other staphylococcal infections); Mangan, mur.
(painful ankles, bone-pains) ; Mangan. oxydat. (pain in
tibia, dysmenorrheea, colic, and diarrhcea). Workers in
Mangan. binoxide are frequently affected with bulbar
paralysis. Use 3x homeeopathically. Mangan. sulph.
(liver affections, excess of bile); Argent.; Rhus.; Sulph,

Antidotes: Coff.; Merc.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

MANGIFERA INDICA
(Mango Tree)

One of the best general remedies for passive hemor-
rhages, utcrine, renal, gastric, pulmonary and intestinal.
Rhinitis, pharyngius, and other acute throat troubles.
Rejaxation cf mucous membrane of alimentary canal.
Catarrhal and serous discharges, chronic intestinal irri-
tation. Varicose veins.

Relationship. — Compare: Erigeron; Epilobium,

Dose. — Tincture.

MEDORRHINUM
(The Gonorrheeal Virus)

A powerful and deep-acting medicine, often indicated
for chronic ailments due to suppressed gonorrhea. For
women with chronic pelvic disorders. Chronic rheuma-
tism. Great disturbance and irritability of nervous sys-
tem. Pains intolerable, tensive; nerves quiver and
tingle. Children dwarfed and stunted. State of col-
lapse and trembling all overs History of sycosis. Often
restores a gonorrhceal discharge. Intensity of all sen-
sations.

Mind. — Weak memory. Loses the thread of conver-
sation. Cannot speak without weeping. Time passes
486 MEDORRHINUM

too slowly. [Cannab. ind.; Arg.n.] Is in a great hurry.
Hopeless of recovery. Fears going insane. [Man-
cinella.) Sensibility exalted. Nervous, restless. Fear
in the dark and of some one behind her.

Head. — Burning pain in brain; worse, occiput. Head
heavy and drawn backward. Headache from jarring of
cars, exhaustion, or hard work. Weight and pressure
in vertex. Hair dry, crispy. Itching of scalp; dandruff.

Eyes. — Feels as if she stared at everything. Eyeballs
ache. Feels as if sticks in eyes. Lids irritated.

Ears. — Partial deafness, pulsation in ears. Quick,
darting pains in right ear.

Nose. — Intense itching. Coldness of tip. Posterior
nares obstructed.

Face. — Pallor, acne, blotches of reddish color. Small
boils break out during menses,

Mouth. — Tongue coated brown and thick, blistered ;
canker sores. Blisters on inner surface of lips and
cheeks. ‘

Stomach. —Coppery taste and eructations of sul-
phuretted hydrogen. Ravenous hunger soon after eat-
ing. Very thirsty. Cravings for liquor, salt, sweets, etc.,
warm drinks.

Abdomen. — Violent pain in liver and spleen. Rests
more comfortably lying on abdomen.

Stool. — Can pass stool only by leaning very far back.
Painful lump sensation on posterior surface of sphinc-
ter. Oozing of fetid moisture. Intense itching of anus.

Urine. — Painful tenesmus when urinating. Nocturnal
enuresis. Renal colic. [Berb.; Ocim.; Pareir.] Urine
flows very slowly. F

Female. — Intense pruritus. Menses offensive, pro-
fuse, dark, clotted; stains difficult to wash out, urinates
frequently at that time. Sensitive spot near os uteri. Leu-
eecrheea thin, acrid, excoriating, fishy odor. Sycotic
486 MEDORRHINUM

too slowly. [Cannab. ind.; Arg.n.] Is in a great hurry.
Hopeless of recovery. Fears going insane. [Man-
cinella.) Sensibility exalted. Nervous, restless. Fear
in the dark and of some one behind her.

Head. — Burning pain in brain; worse, occiput. Head
heavy and drawn backward. Headache from jarring of
cars, exhaustion, or hard work. Weight and pressure
in vertex. Hair dry, crispy. Itching of scalp; dandruff.

Eyes. — Feels as if she stared at everything. Eyeballs
ache. Feels as if sticks in eyes. Lids irritated.

Ears. — Partial deafness, pulsation in ears. Quick,
darting pains in right ear.

Nose. — Intense itching. Coldness of tip. Posterior
nares obstructed.

Face. — Pallor, acne, blotches of reddish color. Small
boils break out during menses,

Mouth. — Tongue coated brown and thick, blistered ;
canker sores. Blisters on inner surface of lips and
cheeks. ‘

Stomach. —Coppery taste and eructations of sul-
phuretted hydrogen. Ravenous hunger soon after eat-
ing. Very thirsty. Cravings for liquor, salt, sweets, etc.,
warm drinks.

Abdomen. — Violent pain in liver and spleen. Rests
more comfortably lying on abdomen.

Stool. — Can pass stool only by leaning very far back.
Painful lump sensation on posterior surface of sphinc-
ter. Oozing of fetid moisture. Intense itching of anus.

Urine. — Painful tenesmus when urinating. Nocturnal
enuresis. Renal colic. [Berb.; Ocim.; Pareir.] Urine
flows very slowly. F

Female. — Intense pruritus. Menses offensive, pro-
fuse, dark, clotted; stains difficult to wash out, urinates
frequently at that time. Sensitive spot near os uteri. Leu-
eecrheea thin, acrid, excoriating, fishy odor. Sycotic
MEDORRHINUM 487

warts on genitals. Ovarian pain, worse left side, or
from ovary to ovary. Sterility. Metrorrhagia. In-
tense menstrual colic. Breasts cold, sore, and sensitive.

Male. — Nocturnal emissions, followed by great weak-
mess. Impotence. Gleet; whole urethra feels sore.
Urethritis.

Respiratory. — Much oppression of breathing. Hoarse
while reading. Pain and soreness through chest and
mammez. Incessant, dry, night cough. Asthma. In-
cipient consumption. Larynx feels sore. Dyspncea;
cannot exhale. [Samb.] Cough; better lying on
stomach.

Extremities. — Pain in back, with burning heat. Legs
heavy; ache all night; cannot keep them still. [Zinc.]
Ankles easily turn when walking. Burning of hands
and feet. Finger-joints enlarged, puffy. Gouty concre-
tions. Heels and balls of feet tender. Soreness of soles.
Restless; better, clutching hands.

Skin. — Yellow. Intense and incessant itching; worse
night and when thinking of it. Fiery red rash about
anus in babies. Copper-colored spots. Favus. Tumors
and abnormal growth.

Fever. — Wants to be fanned all the time. Chills up
and down back; coldness of legs, hands, and forearms.
Flashes of heat in face and neck. Night-sweat and
hectic.

Sleep.— Dreams she is drinking. [Ars.; Phos.]
Sleeps in knee-chest position.

Modalities. — Worse, when thinking of ailment, from
daylight to sunset, heat, inland. Better, at the sea-
shore, lying on stomach, damp weather. [Caust.]

Relationship. — Compare: Lactation: Galega; Lac-
tuca. Sulph.; Syphil.; Zinc.

Dose.— The very highest potencies only of service.
Must not be repcated often.
488 MEDUSA -— MEL CUM SALE— MELILOTUS

MEDUSA
(Jelly-fish)

Whole face puffed and cedematous — eyes, nose, ears,
lips.

Skin. — Numbness; burning, pricking heat. Vesicular
eruption, especially on face, arms, shoulders, and
breasts. Nettle-rash. [Apis; Chloral.; Dule.]

Female. — Marked action on lacieal glands. The se-
cretion of milk was established after lack of it in all
previous confinements.

Relationship. — Compare: Pyrarara; Physalia (urti-
caria) ; Urtica; Homar.; Sep.

MEL CUM SALE
(Honey with Salt)

Prolapsus uteri and chronic metritis, especially when
associated with suliivolution and inflammation of the |
cervix. The special symptom leading to its selection
is a fecling of soreness across the hypogastrium from
ileum to tleum. Uterine displacements, and in the com-
mencement of metritis. Sensation as if bladder were
too full. Pain from sacrum towards pubes. Pain as if
in ureters.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency. Honey for itching
of anus and worms.

MELILOTUS
(Yellow Melilot — Sweet Clover)

Congestions and hemorrhages seem to be the special
manifestations of this drug. Violent congestive and
nervous headaches. Infantile spasms. Epilepsy from
blow on head. Pain and debility point to it. Coldness,
tenderness, and pain.
MELILOTUS 489

Mind. — Unable to fix mind. Memory treacherous.
Stupor. Wants to run away and hide. Delusions;
thinks every one is looking at her, fears to talk loud,
and wants to run away, etc.

Head. — Headache with retching, vomiting, sense of
pressure over orbits, pallor, cold hands and feet, black
spots before eyes. Heavy, oppressed; frontal, throb-
bing, undulating sensation in brain. Sick headache; re-
lieved by epistaxis or menstrual flow. Fullness all over
head. Eyes heavy; blurred sight; wants to close them
tightly for relief. Neuralgia around and over right side
of head and neck. Scalp sore and tender to touch.

Nose. — Stopped up, dry, must breathe through
mouth; dry, hard clinkers in nose; profuse epistaxis.

Face. — Intensely red and flushed, with throbbing
carotids. [Bell.]

Stool. — Difficult, painful, constipated. Anus feels
constricted, full, throbs. No desire until there is a large
accumulation. [Bry.; Alum.]

Female. — Menses scanty, intermit, with nausea and
bearing-down. Sticking pain in external parts. Dys-
menorrhaca. Ovarian neuralgia.

Respiratory. — Feels as if smothering, especially from
rapid walking. Hesemoptysis. Weight on chest. Tick-
ling in throat with cough.

Extremities. — Pain in knee; wants to stretch leg, but
does not relieve. Joints sore. Skin and extremities
cold. Numbness and aching in knee-joints,

Modalities. — Worse, rainy, changeable weather, ap-
proach of storm, motion; 4 P. M.

Relationship.— Compare: Melilotus alba (White
Clover — practically the same action. (Hzmorrhages,
congestive headaches, engorged blood vessels, spasms.)
Amyl; Bell.; Glon.

Dose. — Tincture, for inhaling; lower potencies.
490 MENISPERMUM — MENTHA PIPERITA

MENISPERMUM
(Moonseed)

A remedy for megrim, associated with restlessness
and dreams. Pain in spine. Dryness, itching all over.
Dry mouth and throat.

Head. — Pressure from within outward, with stretch-
ing and yawning and pain down back. Sick headache;
pain in forehead and temples, moving to occiput.
Tongue swollen and much saliva.

Extremities. — Pain in back, thighs, elbows, shoulders.
Legs sore, as if bruised. °

Relationship. — Compare: Cocculus; Bryon.

Dose. — Third potency.

MENTHA PIPERITA
(Peppermint)

Marked action on respiratory organs and skin.

Abdomen. — Bloated, disturbing sleep. Infantile colic.
Bilious colic with great accumulation of gas.

Respiratory. — Voice husky. Tip of nose sore to
touch. Throat dry and sore, as if pin crosswise in it.
Dry cough, worse from air into larynx, tobacca smoke
(Merc.), talking; with irritation in suprasternal fossa
[Rumex ] Trachea painful ta touch.

Skin.— Every scratch becomes a sore. Itching of
arm and hand when writing. Vaginal pruritus. Herpes
zoster. [Ars.; Ran. bulb.]

Relationship. -- Compare: Rumex: Laches.; Mentha
pulegium (pain in bones of forehead and extremities).

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency. Locally, in pru-
ritus vagine.
MENTHOL — MENYANTHES 491

MENTHOL

The stearopten from the essential oil of Mentha.
Mucous membrane of naso-pharynx and spinal nerve
plexus, producing neuritic pains and parathesias. Men-
thol has proved curative in acute nasal catarrh; in acute
eustachian catarrh; pharyngitis; laryngitis; neuralgias,
etc. (Wm. B. Griggs, M.D.) Itching, especially pruritus
vulvee.

Head. -— Frontal headache, pain over frontal sinus,
descends to eyeballs, Mental confusion. Supra orbital
pain over left cye. Pain in face above zygoma with
numbness. Pain in eyeballs. Coryza with post-nasal
dripping. Cold sensation in nose. Eustachian tubes feel
blocked and some deafness.

Respiratory. — Tickling in the fauces, Stabbing pains
in the precordia, radiating over entire chest. Short, dry
cough, worse smoking. Asthmatic breathing, with con-
gestive headache

Extremities. — Muscular pain in cervical region. Sore-
ness of lumbar muscles.

Relationship. — Compare: Kali bich.; Spigel.

Dose. — Sixth potency. Externally for itching, use
1 per cent. solution or ointment.

MENYANTHES
(Buck-bean)

A remedy for certain headaches, intermittent fever.
Coldness of abdomen. Twitchings. Sensation of ten-
sion and compression. Fidgets and urinary difficulties
in women.

Head. —Pressing in vertex; better, hard pressure with
hand. Pressing-together pain. Weight pressing on brain
with every step on ascending. Pain from nape over
whole brain; better, stooping, sitting; worse, going up-
stairs. Cracking in jaw and twitching of facial muscles.
492 MENYANTHES — MEPHITIS

Stomach.—No thirst at any time. Ravenous hunger;
passing away after eating a little. Desire for meat.
Sensation of coldness extending up to cesophagus.

Abdomen. — Distended and full; increased by smok-
ing tobacco. Coldness of abdomen.

Extremities. — Icy coldness of hands and feet, Cramp-
like pain. As soon as patient lies down, legs jerk and
twitch,

Fever. — Coldness predominates; felt most acutely in
abdomen and legs and tip of nose.

Modalities. — Worse, during rest, ascending. Better,
pressure on affected part, stooping, motion.

Relationship. — Compare: Caps.; Puls.; Calc.; Phos.
ac.; Sang,

Antidote: Camph,

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

MEPHITIS
(Skunk)

A great medicine for whooping-cough. In order to.
insure its full success, it should be given in the lower
dilutions from 1x to 3x. Suffocative feeling, asthmatic
paroxysms, spasmodic cough; cough so violent, seems
as if each spell would terminate life. Child must be
raised up, gets blue in face, cannot exhale. Mucus
rales through upper part of chest. Patient wants to
bathe in ice-cold water.

Mind. —- Excited, full of fancies. Can neither sleep
nor work.

Eyes. — Pain from overexertion; blur; unable to dis-
tinguish letters; conjunctiva red; eyes hot and painful.

Mouth. — Painful jerks in root of teeth. Bloated face.
Coppery taste, as after eating onions.

Regpiratory.— Sudden contraction of glottis, when
drinking or talking. Food goes down wrong way.
MEPHITIS — MERCURIALIS PERENNIS — MERCURILS 493

False croup; cannot exhale. Spasmodic and whooping-
cough. Few paroxysms in day-time, but many at night;
with vomiting after eating. Asthma, as if inhaling sul-
phur; cough from talking; hollow, deep, with rawness,
hoarseness, and pains through chest. Violent spasmodic
cough; worse at night.

Sleep. — Awakes at night with rush of blood to lower
legs. Vivid dream of water, fire, etc.

Relationship. —- Compare: Dros.; Coral.; Sticta.

Dose. — First to third potency. Has a very short
action.

MERCURIALIS PERENNIS
(Dog’s Mercury)

Great exhaustion and drowsiness. Tumor at ensi-
form appendix, very sensitive. Affections of the mus-
cular fibres of stomach, intestines, bladder.

Head. — Vertigo un going down stairs. Head con-
fused. Pain as from a band tightly across forehead.
Nostrils sore, conscious of nose, feels as if she had
two noses,

Mouth. — Great dryness of mouth and throat; tongue
feels heavy and dry, numb. Burning blisters of tongue,
lips and cheeks. Ulcers on palate, tonsils and, back of
pharynx.

Female. — Amenorrhea, scanty menses, accompanied
with orgasms. Pains and swelling of breasts. Dys-
menorrhacea,

Relationship. — Compare: Borax; Croton; Euphorb.

Dose. — Third potency.

MERCURIUS — HYDRARGYRUM
(Quicksilver)

Every organ and tissue of the body is more or less
affected by this powerful drug; but especially so the
494 MERCURIUS

lymphatic system, with all the membranes and glands,
and internal organs, bones, etc. Tremors everywhere.
Weakness with ebullitions and tremblings from least
exertion, All Mercury symptoms are worse at night,
from warmth of bed, from damp, cold, rainy weather,
worse during perspiration. Complaints increase with
the sweat and rest; all associated with a great deal of
weariness, prostration, and trembling. Sensitive to
heat and cold. Parts are much swollen, with raw, sore
feeling; the profuse, oily perspiration does not relieve.
Breath, excretions and body smell foul. Tendency to
formation of pus. A human “thermometer.”

Mind.— Slow in answering questions. Memory
weakened, and loss of will-power. Weary of life. Mis-
trustful. Thinks he is losing his reason.

Head. — Vertigo, when lying on back. Band-feeling
about head. One-sided, tearing pains. Tension about
scalp, as if bandaged. Catarrhal headaches; much heat
in head. Stinging, burning, fetid eruptions on scalp.
Loss of hair. Exostosis, with feeling of soreness.
Scalp tense; oily sweat on head.

Eyes. — Lids red, thick, swollen. Profuse, burning,
acrid discharge. Floating black spots. After exposure
to glare of fire; foundrymen. Parenchymatous keratitis
of syphilitic origin with burning pain, Iritis, with hy-
popyon,

Ears. --- Thick, yellow discharge; fetid and bloody.
Otalyia, worse warmth ef bed; at night, sticking pains.
Boils in external canal. [Calc. pic.]

Nose. — Much sneezing. Sneezing in sunshine. Nos-
trils raw, ulcerated; nasal bones swollen. Yellow-
green, fetid, pus-like discharge. Coryza; acrid dis-
charge, but too thick to run down the lip; worse, warm
room. Pain and swelling of nasal bones, and caries,
with greenish fetid ulceration. Nosebleed at night.
MERCURIUS 495

Copious discharge of corroding mucus. Coryza, with
sneezing; sore, raw, smarting sensation; worse, damp
weather; profuse, fluent,

Face. — Pale, earthy, dirty-looking, puffy. Syphilitic
pustules on face.

Mouth. — Sweetish taste. Salivary secretions greatly
increased; bloody and viscid. Saliva fetid, coppery.
Speech difficult on account of trembling tongue. Gums
spongy, recede, bleed easily. Whole mouth moist.
Crown of teeth decay. Teeth loose, feel tender and
elongated. Furrow in upper surface of tongue length-
wise. Tongue heavy, thick; moist coating; yellow,
flabby, tecth-indented; feels as if burnt, with ulcers.
Fetid odor from mouth; can smell it all over room.
Alveolar abscess, worse at night, Great thirst, with
moist mouth,

Throat. — Bluish-red swelling. Constant desire to
swallow. Putrid sore throat; worse right side. Ulcers
and inflammation appearing at every change in weather.
Stitches into ear on swallowing; fluids return through
nose. Quinsy, with difficult swallowing, after pus has
formed. Sore, raw, smarting, burning throat. Com-
plete loss of voice. Burning in throat, as from hot
vapor ascending.

Stomach. — Putrid eructations. Jntense thirst for
cold drinks. Weak digestion, with continuous hunger.
Stomach sensitive to touch. Hiccough and regurgita-
tion. Feels replete and constricted.

Abdomen. — Stabbing pain, with chilliness. Boring
pain in right groin. Flatulent distention, with pain.
Liver enlarged; sore to touch, indurated. Jaundice.
Bile scecreted deficiently.

Stool.—Greenish, bloody and slimy, worse at night;
with pain and tenesmus. Never-get-done feeling, Dis-
496 MERCURIUS

charge accompanied by chilliness, sick stomach, cutting
colic, and tenesmus. Whitish-gray stools.

Urine. — Frequent urging. Greenish discharge from
urethra; burning in urethra on beginning to urinate.
Urine dark, scanty, bloody, albuminous.

Male. — Vesicles and ulcers; soft chancre. Cold
genitals. Prepuce irritated; itches. Nocturnal emis-
sions, stained with blood.

Female.— Menses profuse, with abdominal pains.
Leucorrheea excoriating, greenish and bloody; sensa-
tion of rawness in parts. Stinging pain in ovaries
[.4pis.] Itching and burning; worse, after urinating;
better, washing with cold water. Morning sickness,
with profuse salivation. Mamme painful and full of
milk at menses.

Respiratory.— Soreness from fauces to sternum.
Cannot lie on right side. [Left side, Lycop.] Cough,
with yellow muco-purulent expectoration. Paroxysms
of two; worse, night, and from warmth of bed. Ca-
tarrh, with chilliness; dread of air. Stitches from lower
lobe of right lung to back. Whooping-cough with nose-
bleed. [Arnica.] Cough worse, tobacco smoke.

Back. — Bruised pain in small of back, especially
when sitting. Tearing pain in coccyx; better, pressing
on abdomen.

Extremities. — Weakness of limbs. Bone-pains
and in limbs; worse, night. Patient very sensitive to
cold. Oily perspiration. Trembling cxtremities, espe-
cially hands; paralysis agitans. Lacerating pain in
joints. Cold, clammy sweat on legs at night. Dropsical
swelling of feet and legs.

Skin. — Almost constantly moist. Excessive odorous
viscid perspiration; worse, night. General tendency to
free perspiration, but patient is not relieved thereby.
Vesicular and pustular eruptions. Ulcers, irregular in
496 MERCURIUS

charge accompanied by chilliness, sick stomach, cutting
colic, and tenesmus. Whitish-gray stools.

Urine. — Frequent urging. Greenish discharge from
urethra; burning in urethra on beginning to urinate.
Urine dark, scanty, bloody, albuminous.

Male. — Vesicles and ulcers; soft chancre. Cold
genitals. Prepuce irritated; itches. Nocturnal emis-
sions, stained with blood.

Female.— Menses profuse, with abdominal pains.
Leucorrheea excoriating, greenish and bloody; sensa-
tion of rawness in parts. Stinging pain in ovaries
[.4pis.] Itching and burning; worse, after urinating;
better, washing with cold water. Morning sickness,
with profuse salivation. Mamme painful and full of
milk at menses.

Respiratory.— Soreness from fauces to sternum.
Cannot lie on right side. [Left side, Lycop.] Cough,
with yellow muco-purulent expectoration. Paroxysms
of two; worse, night, and from warmth of bed. Ca-
tarrh, with chilliness; dread of air. Stitches from lower
lobe of right lung to back. Whooping-cough with nose-
bleed. [Arnica.] Cough worse, tobacco smoke.

Back. — Bruised pain in small of back, especially
when sitting. Tearing pain in coccyx; better, pressing
on abdomen.

Extremities. — Weakness of limbs. Bone-pains
and in limbs; worse, night. Patient very sensitive to
cold. Oily perspiration. Trembling cxtremities, espe-
cially hands; paralysis agitans. Lacerating pain in
joints. Cold, clammy sweat on legs at night. Dropsical
swelling of feet and legs.

Skin. — Almost constantly moist. Excessive odorous
viscid perspiration; worse, night. General tendency to
free perspiration, but patient is not relieved thereby.
Vesicular and pustular eruptions. Ulcers, irregular in
MERCURIUS 497

shape, edges undefined. Pimples around the main erup-
tion, Jtching; worse from warmth of bed. Crusta
lactea; yellowish-brown crusts, considerable suppura-
tion. Glands swell every time patient takes cold.
Buboes. Orchitis. [Clemat.; Hamam.; Puls.]

Fever. — Generally gastric or bilious, with profuse
nightly perspiration; debility, slow and lingering. Heat
and shuddering alternately. Yellow perspiration. Pro-
fuse perspiration without relief. Creeping chilliness;
worse in the evening and into night. Alternate flashes
of heat in single parts.

Modalities, — Worse, at night, wet, damp weather,
lying on right side, perspiring; warm room and warm
bed.

Relationship. — Compare: Capparis coriaccea (poly-
uria, glandular affections, mucous diarrhcea; influenza) ;
Epilobium — Willow herb—- (chronic diarrhea with
tenesmus and mucus discharges; ptyalism, dysphagia) ;
Kali hyd, (in hard chancre); Mercur. acet. (Conges-
tion with stiffness, dryness and heat of parts affected.
Eyes inflamed, burn and itch. Lack of moisture. Throat
dry, talking difficult. Pressure in lower sternum).
Mercurius nitrosus — Nitrate of Mercury — (especially
in pustular conjunctivitis and keratitis; gonorrhoea and
mucous patches, with sticking pains; syphilides) ;
Mercurius auratus (psoriasis and syphilitic catarrh) ;
Mercurius bromaius (secondary syphilitic skin affec-
tion) ; Mercurius phusphoricus (nervous diseases from
syphilis; exostoses); Mercurius precipitatus ruber
(suffocative attacks at night on lying down while on
the point of falling asleep, obliged to jump up sud-
denly, which relieves; gonorrheea; urethra felt as a hard
string; chancroid; phagedznic ulcer and bubo; pemphi-
gus, mucous patches, eczema with rhagades and fis-
sures, barber’s itch; blepharitis, internally and ex-
498 = MERCURIUS — MERCURIUS SUL. — MERC. CYAN.

ternally; leaden heaviness in occiput, with otorrheea) ;
Mercurius tannicus (syphilides in patients with gastro-
intestinal diseases, or, if very sensitive, to ordinary mer-
curial preparations) ; Erythrinus — South American Red
Mullet Fish — (in pityriasis rubra and syphilis; red
rash on chest; pityriasis); Lolium temuelentum (in
trembling of hands and legs); Mercur. cum kali (in-
veterate colds, acute facial paralysis).

Compare: Mez.; Phos.; Syph.; Kali mur. Different
Mercurial Salts; Ethiops.

Antidote: Hep.; Aur.; Mes.

Complementary: Badiaga.

Dose. — Second to thirtieth potency.

MERCURIUS SULPHURICUS
(Turpethum Minerale — Yellow Sulphate of Mercury)

‘Diarrhea early in the morning; the stool bursts out
in a hot stream of ycllow matter. Intense evacuations,
like rice-water. Scanty, clear, scalding urine. Intense
dyspnoea; must sit up. Respiration rapid, short; burn-
ing in chest. Hydrothorax. [Ars.]

Relationship. — Compare: Mercur, acet. (cutting in
urethra when last drop is flowing out).

MERCURIUS CYANATUS
(Cyanide of Mercury)

Acute infections, pneumonia, nephritis. Its action is
similar to that of the toxines of infectious diseases. Great
and rapid prostration, tendency toward hemorrhages,
from the different orifices, of dark fluid blood, cyanosis,
rapid respiration and heart action, albuminuria and
twitching and jerking of muscles. Typhoid pneumonia.

Livid states from great struggling, where suffocation

fs imminent and paralysis of lung threatening; great
“sweat,
MERCURIUS CYANATUS 499

Affects most prominently the buccal cavity. This,
together with marked prostration, gives it a place in
the treatment of diphtheria, where it has achieved un-
questioned great results. Malignant types, with pros-
tration. Coldness and nausea. Syphilitic ulcers when
perforation threatens.

Head—Great excitement, fits of passion; iury;
talkativeness. Atrocious headache. Eyes sunken; face
pale.

Mouth. -— Covered with ulcerations. Tongue pale.
Free salivation. Fetor of breath. Pain and swelling
of salivary glands. Astringent taste. Ulcerations of
mouth have a gray membrane.

Throat. — Feels raw and sore. Mucous membranes
broken down, ulcerated. Looks raw in spots, especially
in public speakers. Hoarseness, and talking is painful.
Necrotic destruction of soft parts of palate and fauces.
Intense redness of fauces. Swallowing very difficult.
Dark blood from nose. Diphtheria of the larynx and
nose. [Kali bich.]

Stomach, — Nausea, romiting, bilious, bloody; hic-
cough; abdomen painful, tender to pressure.

Rectum. — Intolerable pain. Redness around anus.
Frequent hemorrhage; stools with tenesmus. Dis-
charge of fetid liquid with gangrenous odor. Black
stools. ’

Urinary. — Suppression of urine. Amber color,
painful. Nephritis with great debility and chilliness,
albuminous, scanty.

Skin. — Moisture, with icy coldness.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency. Aggravation is
apt to occur from potencies below the sixth,
od

500 MERCURIUS DULCIS — MERCURIUS I0D, FLAV.

MERCURIUS DULCIS
(Calomel)

Has marked effect on catarrhal inflammation of ear,
and useful in Eustachian catarrh, deafness. Diarrhcea,
with soreness of anus. Prostatitis. Remittent bilious
attacks. Pallor, flabby bloatedncss, and turgid flaccid-
ity. Inflammation with plastic exudate. Especially in-
dicated in systems disposed to remittent bilious fevers;
in peritonitis and meningitis with plastic exudate.

Ears. — Otitis media; closure of Eustachian tube,
ear troubles of scrofulous children; membrana tympani
retracted, thickened and immovable,

Mouth. — Offensive breath; salivation; sore gums.
Ulcers. Tongue black. Constant flow of dark, putrid
saliva; very offensive. Ulceration of throat, with dys-
phagia. Granular pharyngitis.

Stomach. — Nausea and vomiting. Cyclic vomiting
of infants. [Cup. ars; Irts.]

Stool.— Scanty, bloody mucus, with bile, and
constant desire, without tenesmus. Dark-green, watery,
with griping. Anus sore and burning. Dysentery;
small stools of mucus and blood, covered with bile,

Skin.— Flabby and ill nourished. Swollen glands.
Phargedenic ulcers. Copper-colored eruptions.

Relationship. — Compare: Kali mur.

Dose. — Third to sixth trituration. For palliative
(non-homeopathic) purposes, to secure evacuation of
bowels, two or three-grain doses of first decimal trit-
uration, repeated several times every hour.

MERCURIUS IODATUS FLAVUS
(Proto-iodide of Mercury)

Throat affections, with greatly swollen glands and
ygflaracteristic coating of tongue. Worse, right side.

Chancre; induration remains long time. Swollen in-
MERCURIUS IOD. FLAV. — MERCURIUS IoD. RUB. 501

guinal glands, large and hard. Mammary tumors, with
tendency to much warm perspiration and gastric dis-
turbances.

Tongue. — Coated thickly; yellow at the base. Tip
and edges may be red and take imprint of teeth.

Throat. — Lacunar tonsillitis, When only the super-
ficial part of the tonsil is involved. Cheesy exudates
with offensive breath. Swelling begins on right side.
Small ulcers on posterior pharynx. Easily detached
patches on inflamed pharynx and fauces; worse, on
right tonsil; much tenacious mucus. Sensation of a
lump. Constant inclination to swallow.

Relationship. — Compare: Plum. iod. (in mamunary
tumors).

Dose. — Second trituration.

MERCURIUS IODATUS RUBER
(Bin-iodide of Mercury)

Diphtheria and ulcerated sore throats, especially on
left side, with much glandular swelling. Chronic sup-
purating buboes. Hard chancres. Old cases of syphilis
in scrofulous patients. Early stages of cold, especially
in children.

Throat.— Fauces dark red; swallowing painful.
Phlegm in nose and throat. Disposition to hawk, with
sensation of a lump in throat. Stiffness of muscles of
throat and neck,

Nose. — Coryza and dull hearing; right side of nose
hot. Hawks mucus from posterior nares. Turbinated
bones swollen. Boggy mucous membrane of nose and
throat; closure of Eustachian tube, opening with a pop.

Mouth. — Gums swollen; toothache; glands swollen.
Scalded feeling on tongue. Aphthz. Profuse saliva.
Tongue feels stiff at base, and pains on moving.
502 MERCURIUS 10D, RUB. — MERCURIUS COR.

Throat. — Diphtheria; submaxillary glands painfully
engorged, fauces dark red; worse on left tonsil.
Parenchymatous tonsillitis. Will often abort peritonsil-
litis if given frequently. Cough from elongated uvula,
with sore throat. Laryngeal troubles with aphonia.

Skin. — Small fissures and cracks; hard papules;
Hunterian chancre; syphilitic ulcers. Bubo. Sarcocele.

Dose. — Third trituration. Mercuric iodide is far
more active as a hactericide than the other mercurials,
including the chloride.

MERCURIUS CORROSIVUS
(Corrosive Sublimate)

This salt leads all other remedies in tenesmus of the
rectum, which is incessant, and is not relieved by the
stool. The tenesmus often involves the bladder as well.
Bright’s disease. Gonorrhcea; second stage, with con-
tinuous tenesmus. Destroys the secreting portions of the
kidneys. This process is slow, but sure. Albuminuria
in early pregnancy. (Phosph. later and at full term.)

Head.—Delirium, stupor. Frontal pain, congestion
of head, with burning in cheeks. Drawing pain in peri-
osteum of skull.

Eyes.— Pain behind eyeballs, as if forced out.
Phiyctenule; deep ulcers on cornea. Excessive photo-
phobia and acrid lachrymation. TIritis. Pain severe at
night; burning, shooting, tearing. Little tendency to
pus formation. Jris muddy in color, thick, and neither
contracts nor dilates, Retinitis albuminuric, ophthalmia
neonatorum. Lids @dematous, red, excoriated. Severe
burning. Soreness of the eyes.

Nose. — Excessive coryza. Ozzena, with perforation
of septum nasi. [Kali bich.] Rawness and smarting
igmostrils. Post-nasal swelling, mucous membrane dry,

need, and covered with bloody mucus.
MERCUR!US CORROSIVUS 503

Ears. — Violent pulsations. Fetid pus.

Face. — Swollen. Red, puffy. Lips black, swollen.
Sordes. Facial neuralgia within the bones,

Mouth. — Teeth loose. Gums purple, swollen, and
spongy. Tongue swollen and inflamed. Salivation.
Pyorrheea. Ptyalism. Taste salty and bitter.

Throat. — Red, swollen, painful, intensely inflamed.
Uvula swollen. Swallowing painful. Most pain is post-
nasal with sharp pains io ears. Burning pain, with
great swelling; worse, slight external pressure. All
glands about thorax swollen.

Stomach, — Incessant, green, bilious vomiting. Epi-
gastrium very sensitive.

Abdomen. — Bruised seusation: cxcal region and
transverse colon painful. Bloated: very painful to least
touch.

Stool. — Dysentery; tenesmus, not relieved by stool;
incessant. Stool hot, bloody, slimy, offensive, with cut-
ting pains and shreds of mucous membrane.

Respiratory. — Pain in larynx as cut with knife.
Aphonia. Cough, with bloody expectoration. Pulse
rapid and intermittent. Stitches through side of chest.

Urine. — Intense burning in urethra. Urine hot,
burning, scanty or suppressed; bloody, greenish dis-
charge. Albuminous. [Helon.; Tereb.; Uran. n.; Am-
mon, bens.; Ars.] Tenesmus of bladder. Stabbing pain
extending up urethra into bladder. Perspiration after
urinating.

Male.— Penis and testes enormously swollen.
Chancres assume phagedenic appearance. Gonorrhea;
urethral orifice red, swollen; glans sore and hot. Dis-
charge greenish, thick.

Fever. — Chilly from slightest exposure. Profuse
perspiration ; surfaces cold.
504 MERICURIUS COR. — METHYLENE BLUE — MEZEREUM

Modalities. — Worse, evening, night, acids. Better,
while at rest.

Relationship.— Compare: Ars.; Lach.; Leonurus —
Motherwort (Influences pelvic organs, allays spasm and
nervous irritability, promotes secretion and reduces
febrile excitement. Valuable in suppressed menses and
lochia; (dysentery; vomiting, frightful pains in ab-
domen, violent thirst. Tongue dry and cracked).

Antidote: Calcium sulphide is antidotal to Bichloride
poisoning. Use intravenous injection of 714 grains in
7% ozs. boiled water. Silicea.

Dose. — Sixth potency. In solution 1: 1000, hypo-
dermically injected under conjunctiva in choroditis with
progressive myopia. Stops immediately the severe ach-
ing pain behind eyeballs. (Dr. G. D. Hallet.)

METHYLENE BLUE
(One of the Aniline Dyes)

A remedy for neuralgia, neurasthenia, malaria; ty-
phoid, here it diminishes the tympanites, delirium, and
fever: pus infection. Tendency to tremor, chorea and
epilepsy. Nephritis (acute parenchymatous), scarlatinal
nephritis Urine acquires a green color. Bladder irri-
tation from its use antidoted by a little nutmeg.

Dose. — 3x attenuation. A 2 per cent. solution locally,
in chronic otitis with foul smelling discharge.

A 0.1 per cent. aqueous solution for ulcers and ab-
scesses of cornea.

MEZEREUM
(Spurge Olive)

Skin symptoms, affections of bones, and neuralgias
most important, especially about teeth and face.
Bruised, weary feeling in joints, with drawing and stiff-
ness. Pains of various kinds, with chilliness and sen-
MEZEREUM 505

Sitiveness to cold air. Bone pains. Eruptions after
vaccination. Burning, darting sensation in the muscles;
subsultus tendinum. Pains shoot upward and seem
to draw patient up out of bed. Semi-lateral complaints.
Patient is very sensitive to cold air.

Head, — Hard work to talk. Headache; worse from
talking. Stupetying headache in right side. Affections
of external head; scaly eruption, white scahs. Head
covered with thick, leathery crusts, under which pus
collects. Violent neuralgia about face and teeth, run-
ning towards ear, at night; worse, eating; better, near
hot stove. Roots of teeth decay. Tecth feel elongated.

Nose. — Sneezing, coryza, interior of nose, ex-
coriated. Post-nasal adenoids.

Ears. — Feel too much open, as if tympanum was
exposed to the cold air and jit blew into the ear.

Eyes.-— Ciliary neuralgia after operations. Espe-
cially after removal of eyeball. Pains radiate and shoot
downward, with cold feeling and stiffness of bone.”

Face. — Red. Eruption areund mouth, with coryza.

Stomach. — Desire for ham-fat. Burning in tongue,
extending to stomach. Mouth waters. Nausea felt in
throat; better, eating. Chronic gastritis; burning, cor-
roding pain; nausea, vomiting, chocolate color. Gastrie
ulcer with much burning.

Abdomen. — Swelling of glands with large abdomen
in children. Pressure in inguinal ring. Flatulent colic,
with shivering and difficult respiration,

Rectum. — Constipation after confinement. Pro-
lapse of rectum. Diarrhoea, with small, white particles.
Green discharges. Constipation, with hepatic and uterine
inertia. Constriction of anus; stitches and prolapse of
rectum. vo
506 MEZEREUM

Urine. — Red flakes float on top of urine. Hot,
bloody. Biting, burning in forepart of urethra at the
close of micturition. Hamaturia preceded by cramp
pain in the bladder. After urinating, a few drops of
blood are passed.

Female.— Menses too frequent, soon, profuse.
Leucorrheea like albumen; very corroding.

Male. — Enlargement of testicles. Violent sexual de-
sire. Gonorrhea, with hematuria.

Respiratory. — Soreness and burning in bones of
thorax. Constriction across chest. Cough; worse, eat-
ing, irritation lower than can be reached, on taking a
warm drink.

Extremities.— Pain in neck and back; worse,
motion and at night; intolerant of all touch. Pain and
burning in tibia and long bones. Legs and feet go to
sleep. Pain in hip and knee.

Skin. — Eczema; intolerable itching; chilliness with
pruritus; worse in bed. Ulcers itch and burn, sur-
rounded by vesicles and shining, fiery-red areola. Zona,
with burning pain. Bones, especially long bones, in-
flamed and swollen; caries, exostosis; pain worse night,
touch, damp weather. [Merc.; Syph.] Eruptions ulcer-
ate and form thick scabs under which purulent matter
exudes.

Modalities. — Worse, cold air; night, evening until
midnight, warm food, touch, motion. Better, open air.

Relationship.— Compare: Dirca palustris — Leather
wood —a gastro-intestinal irritant inducing salivation,
emesis and purgation (neuralgic pains, with depression,
palpitation, and dyspnoea); Merc.: Phyt.; Rhus;
Guaiac.; Syph.

_ Antidotes: Kali hyd.; Merc.
? Pose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.
506 MEZEREUM

Urine. — Red flakes float on top of urine. Hot,
bloody. Biting, burning in forepart of urethra at the
close of micturition. Hamaturia preceded by cramp
pain in the bladder. After urinating, a few drops of
blood are passed.

Female.— Menses too frequent, soon, profuse.
Leucorrheea like albumen; very corroding.

Male. — Enlargement of testicles. Violent sexual de-
sire. Gonorrhea, with hematuria.

Respiratory. — Soreness and burning in bones of
thorax. Constriction across chest. Cough; worse, eat-
ing, irritation lower than can be reached, on taking a
warm drink.

Extremities.— Pain in neck and back; worse,
motion and at night; intolerant of all touch. Pain and
burning in tibia and long bones. Legs and feet go to
sleep. Pain in hip and knee.

Skin. — Eczema; intolerable itching; chilliness with
pruritus; worse in bed. Ulcers itch and burn, sur-
rounded by vesicles and shining, fiery-red areola. Zona,
with burning pain. Bones, especially long bones, in-
flamed and swollen; caries, exostosis; pain worse night,
touch, damp weather. [Merc.; Syph.] Eruptions ulcer-
ate and form thick scabs under which purulent matter
exudes.

Modalities. — Worse, cold air; night, evening until
midnight, warm food, touch, motion. Better, open air.

Relationship.— Compare: Dirca palustris — Leather
wood —a gastro-intestinal irritant inducing salivation,
emesis and purgation (neuralgic pains, with depression,
palpitation, and dyspnoea); Merc.: Phyt.; Rhus;
Guaiac.; Syph.

_ Antidotes: Kali hyd.; Merc.
? Pose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.
MICROMERIA — MILLEFOLIUM 507

MICROMERIA
(Yerba Buena)

A California plant acting on stomach and_ bowels.
Used as a tea to cure colic and relieve flatulence.

Stomach. — Nausea; pain in stomach and bowels;
flatulence.

Dose. —- Tincture.

MILLEFOLIUM
(Yarrow)

An invaluable remedy for various types of hemor-
rhages; blood bright red. Incarcerated hernia; small-
pox, with great pain in pit of stomach. After opera-
tions for stone. Bad effects from fall from a height;
overlifting. Continued high temperature. Hemoptysis.

Head. — Vertigo when moving slowly. Sensation
as if he had forgotten something. The head seems full
of blood. Convulsions and epilepsy from suppressed
menses. Piercing thrusts of pain.

Nose. — Noseblecd. [Erecht.] Piercing pain from
eyes to root of nose.

Stool. — Hemorrhage from bowels. Bleeding hemor-
rhoids. Urine bloody. [Senec. aur.]

Female. — Menses .early, profuse, protracted.
Hemorrhage from uterus; bright red, fluid. Painful
varices during pregnancy.

‘Respiratory.—- Hemoptysis in incipient phthisis.
Cough, with bloody expectoration, in suppressed menses
or hemorroids. Violent palpitation.

Relationship.— Compare: Ficus venosa (Pakur).
Hemorrhage from bowels and lungs. Acalypha and
§08 MILLEFOLIUM — MITCHELLA — MOMORDICA BAL.

Helix tosta — Snail — (in hemoptysis, diseases of chest,
consumption); also, Ipec.; Erecht.; Geran.; Hamam.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

MITCHELLA
(Partridge-berry)

Bladder symptoms accompany complaints, especially
uterine congestion.

Urinary. — Irritation at neck of bladder, with urg-
ing to urinate. [Eup. purp.; Apis.) Dysuria. Catarrk
of bladder.

Female. — Cervix dark red, swollen. Dysmenor-
rhea and uterine hemorrhage; blood bright red,

Relationship. — Compare:: Chimaph.; Senecio; Uva;
Geran. ; ‘Gossyp.

Dose. — Tincture.

MOMORDICA BALSAMINA
(Balsam Apple)

Griping, colic, pain in back and hypogastrium with
painful and excessive menses. Accumulation of flatus
in splenic flexure of colon,

Head. — Dizzy, contents of head feel lighter; mist
before eyes.

Abdomen. — Rumbling, griping, colicky pains, start-
ing from back, spreading over abdomen.

Female.— Painful and profuse menses; labor-fike
pains, followed by gushes of blood; pain at small ‘of
back coming towards front of pelvis.

Relationship. — Momordica charantia—Indian vari-
efy-— more severe symptoms — intestines tull of yellow
a fluid, discharged explosively —cramps, thirst,
MOMORDICA BALSAMINA — MORPHINUM 509

prostration, Choleraic symptoms. Similar to Croton,
Elaterium., Use 3x.
Dose. — Tincture.

MORPHINUM
(An Alkaloid of Opium)

Morphine bears the same relation to Opium as Atro-
pine to Belladonna —i. ¢., represents its nervous side.
It is less stimulating, less convulsant, and more de-
cidedly hypnotic. Constipates less and affects contrac-
tility of the bladder more. It is less diaphoretic and
more pruritic.

Mind. — Profound depression. Irritable, fault-find-
ing, hysterical. Shock induced by terror, Dream-like
state,

Head.— Vertigo from the Icast movement of the
head. Headache, with sensation of being “wound-up.”
Bursting pain; head drawn hack.

Eyes. — Bluish, drooping lids. Jiching of eyes. De-
lusion of vision on closing eyes. Staring, injected; di-
verging strabismus. Pupils unequally contracted. Look
unstcady. Ptosis. Parcsis of recti interni.

Ears.— Left ear throbs painfully; better, heat.
Seems to hear circulation all over body.

Face.— Dusky red or pallid lividity of face, lips,
tongue, mouth or throat.

Nose. — Sneezing in paroxysms. Jtching and tingling
on end of nose.

Mouth.-- Very dry. Tongue dry, brown violet in
middle. Thirst. Loss of appetite, with aversion to
meat.

Throat. — Dry and constricted... Pharynx paralyzed,
swallowing almost impussible; better hot drinks, worse
solids. :
510 MORPHINUM

Stomach. -- Nausea incessant and deathly, faintness,
constant retching. Vomiting of green fluid. Nausea
and vomiting on rising up.

Abdomen. — Distended. Acute pain in abdomen and
along spinal column.

Rectum. — Diarrhea watery, brown, or black with
horrible tenesmus. Constipation; stools large, dry,
knotty, with tendency to bruise and fissure.

Urinary.—Paresis of bladder. Strangury. Slow and
dificult urination. Retention of prostatic hypertrophy.
Uramia, acute and chronic.

Male.— Impotency. Pain in right spermatic cord.
[Oxal. ac.]}

Heart. — Alternation of tachycardia and bradycardia.
Cardiac muscular tissue is intact, even if severely ex-
hausted. Pulse small, weak, dicrotic.

Respiratory.— Faint and struggling for breath;
diaphragmatic paralysis: hiccough; dyspneea, paroxys-
mal, on first falling asleep. [Lach.; Grindel.] Cheyne-
Stokes respiration. Chest tight. Pain in middle of
sternum. Dry, hard, teasing, exhausting cough, worse
at night. Strangling cough, with viscid mucus sputum ;
thin, scanty, but sounds loose and abundant.

Back. — Pain along spine. Weakness of loins. Ach-
ing across lumbo-sacral region; cannot walk erect.
[Cimicif.]

Extremities. — Staggering gait. Numbness.

Skin. — Livid; purple spots; zoster-like herpes. Jich-
ing. Skin lost its elasticity. Urticaria appearing at
climaxis.

Nervous. — Restlessness and hyperaxsthesia; trem-
bling, twitching, jerking, convulsions. Extremely sus-
ceptible to pain. Pain causes twitching and jerking of
‘limbs. Violent and sudden neuralgic pains and sudden
MORPHINUM — MOSCHUS 511

fainting. Delirium, melancholic in character. Neu-
ralgias intensely painful; left supraorbital; right inter-
costal, better from heat; multiple neuritis. Sore feel-
ing all over. Bed feels too hard. Aggravation after
sleep. [Lach.] Neuralgia after zoster. [Mezer.]

Sleep. — Yawning, drowsy; prolonged, deep sleep.
Sleepless; restless sleep, with frequent  startings.
Sleepy, but cannot sleep.

Fever. — Chills. Icy coldness. Burning heat; pro-
fuse sweat.

Dose. -— Third to sixth trituration.

MOSCHUS
(Musk)

A remedy for hysteria and nervous paroxysms, faini-
ing fits and convulsions, catalepsy, etc. The character-
istic condition being aggravation by cold; there is great
sensitiveness to air. Much nervous trembling and fre-
quent fainting. Great flatulence. Diseases do not fol-
low a normal course.

Mind. — I/ncontrollable laughter. Scolding. Anxiety,
with palpitation; starting as if frightened. Sexual
hypochondriasis.

Head. — Compressive pain over root of nose. Pres-
sure on top of head. Vertigo on least motion; sensa-
tion as if falling from a great height. Scalp sensitive.
Sounds in ears as from the report of a cannon.

Stomach.— Desire for black coffee, stimulants.
Aversion to food. Everything tastes flat. With stomach
symptoms, anxiety in chest. Distended. Faints when
eating. Abdomen greatly distended. Spasmodic,
nervous hiccough. [Hydrory. ac.; Sulph. ac.; Ignat.;
Cajap.]
512 MOSCHUS — MUREX

Male. — buolent desire; involuntary emissions. Im-
potence, associated with diabetes, [Coca.] Premature
senility. Nausea and vomiting after coition.

Female.— Menses too early, too profuse, with dis»
position to faint. [Nusx m.; Veratr.]) Sexual desire,
with intolerable titillation in parts. Drawing and push-
ing in the direction of the genitals; sensation as if
menses appear. ,

Urine. — Profuse urination. Diabctes,

Respiratory. — Tightness of chest, is obliged to take
a deeper breath. Sudden constriction of larynx and
trachea. Difficult respiration; chest oppressed; hysteri-
cal spasm of chest; asthma. Spasm of glottis. Im-
pending paralysis of lungs. Asthma, with intense anx-
iety, fear, and smothering sensation. Cough ceases, and
mucus cannot be cxpectarated, Globus hystericus.

Heart. — Hysterical palpitation. Trembling around
heart. Weak pulse and fainting.

Modalities. —~ Better, in open air, rubbing. Worse,
cold.

Relationship. — Compare: Nux mosch.; Asaf.; Va-
ler.; Sumbul.; Ign.; Castor.

Compatible: Ambra.

Antidotes: Camph.; Coff.

Dose. — First to third potency.

MUREX
(Purple Fish)

The symptoms of the female sexual organs are most
prpminent, and have been clinically verified. Especially
adapted to nervous, lively, affectionate women. Patient
weak and run down.
MUREX — MURIATICUM ACIDUM 513

Mind. — Great sadness, anxiety, and dread.

Stomach. — Sinking, all-gone sensation in stomach.
[Sep.] Hungry, must eat.
" Female.— Conscious of a womb. Pulsation in neck
of womb. Desire easily excited. Feeling as if some-
thing was pressing on a sore spot in the pelvis; worse
sitting. Pain from right side of womb to right or left
breast. Nymphomania. Least contact of parts causes
violent sexual excitement. Sore pain in uterus. Menses
irregular, profuse, frequent, large clots. Feeling of pro-
trusion. Prolapse; enlargement of uteius, with pelvic
tenesmus and sharp pains, extending toward breasts;
aggravated lying down. Dysmenorrhea and chronic
endometritis, with displacement. Must kecp legs tightly
crossed. Leucorrhea green or bloody, alternate with
mental symptoms and aching in sacrum. Benign
tumors in breasts. Pain in them during menstrual
period.

Urinary. — Urine frequent at night; smells like Vale-
rian; constant urging. [Kreos.]

Modalities. — Worse, Jeast touch.

Relationship. — Compare: Plat.; Lil.; Sep. (the latter
lacks sexual erethism of Afurex.)

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

MURIATICUM ACIDUM
(Muriatic Acid)

This acid has an elective affinity for the blood, pro-
ducing a septic condition similar to that found in low
fevers with high temperature and great prostration.
Patient becomes so weak she slides down the bed. De-
composition of fluids. Involuntary stools while passing
urine. Hzmorrhages. Mouth and anus chiefly affected.
514 MURIATICUM ACIDUM

Mind. — Irritable and peevish; fretful. Loud moan-
ing. Great restlessness. Sad, taciturn; suffers in silence.

Head. — Vertigo: occiput heavy as if filled with lead.
Sound of voice is intolerable. Pain as if brain were’
crushed.

Nose. — Hemorrhage; much sneezing.

Face. — Lower jaw fallen; pimples and freckles; lips
raw, dry, cracked.

Mouth. — Tongue dry, leathery, paralyzed. Deep
ulcers on tongue. Hard lumps in tongue. Epithelioma ;
edges bluish-red. [Carbol. ac.] Aphthous mouth.
Gums and glans swollen. Fetid breath. Sordes on
tecth,

Throat. — Uvula swollen. Ulcers and false membrane.
Cédematous, dark, taw. Attempted swallowing pro-
duces spasm and chcking.

Stomach. — Cannot bear sight or thought of meat. At
times, ravenous appetite and constant desire to drink.

Rectum. — Tendency to involuntary evacuations while
urinating. Hemorrhoids most sensitive to all touch;
even sheet of toilet paper is painful. Anal itching and
prolapsus ani while urinating. Hemorrhoids during
pregnancy, bluish, hot, with violent stitches.

Heart.— Pulse rapid, feeble, and small. Intermits
every third beat. .

Urine. — Cannot urinate without having bowels move
at same time.

Female.— Menses appear too soon. Leucorrhaa.
During menses, soreness of anus. Ulcer in genitals.

Extremities. — Heavy, painful, and weak. Tottering
gait. Pain in tendo- Achilles.

* Skin.— Papular and vesicular eruptions, with great
MURIATICUM ACIDUM — MYGALE LASIODORA 515

itching. |[Rhus.] Carbuncles; foul-smelling ulcers on
lower extremities. Scarlet fever, livid, with petechiz;
scanty eruption.

Fever.— Cold extremities. Heat without thirst.
Typhoid types, stupid. Hwmorrhages.  Restlessness.
Involuntary discharges. Bed-sores. Pulse rapid and
feeble. Excessive prostration.

Modalities. — Horse, in damp weather, before mid-
night. Setter, lying on left side.

Relationship. —- Compare: Phos. ac.;  Ars.;  Bapt.
Follows well after Bry. and Rhus.

Antidote: Aryoniu.

Dose. -- First to third potency.

MYGALE LASIODORA
(Black Cuban Spider)

Chorea is the principal therapeutic field of this rem-
eay. Sexual symptoms are important.

Mind. — Delirious, restless, sad; fears death: de-
spondent.

Face. — Twitching oj facial muscles. Mouth and eyes
open in rapid succession. Hot and flushed. Tongue dry
and parched; put out with difficulty. Head jerked tu
one side. Grating of teeth at night.

Stomach. — Nausea, with dim sight. Aversion to food.
Excessive thirst.

Male. — Violent erections. Chordee. [Kali brom.;
Camph.]

Extremities. — Unsteady gait. Constant motion of
whole body. Tremulous. Intense redness in streaks,
following course of lymphatics. Twitching of limbs.
Restless hands. Convulsive, uncontrollable movements
of arms and Icgs. Limbs drag while walking.
516 MYGALE LASIODORA — MYOSOTIS — MYRICA

Relationship.—-Compare: Agar.; Tarant.; Cubr.;
Zizia,

Modalities. — Better, during sleep. Worse, in morn-
ing.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

MYOSOTIS
(Forget-me-not)

Chronic bronchitis and phthisis. Night-sweats.

Respiratory. — Cough with profuse muco-purulent ex-
pectoration, gagging and vomiting during cough; worse
while or after eating. Bronchorrhceea. Pain in left
lung (lower); painful while coughing and sensitive to
percussion.

Dose. — Tincture to second potency.

MYRICA
(Bayberry)

Marked action on the liver, with jaundice. Persistent
sleeplessness.

Mind. — Despondent, irritable, indifferent,

Head. -- Scalp feels tight. Headache, with drowsi-
ness; yellow sclerotica; aching in eyeballs. Pressure in
vertex and forehead. Pain and stiffness in nape of neck.

Face. —- Yellow. Itching and stinging. Creeping sen-
sation.

Mouth. — Tongue furred, with bad taste in mouth,
and nausea. Tenacivus, thick, nauseous secretion. Ten-
der, spongy, and bleeding gums. [Merc.]

Throat. — Constricted and rough feeling, with a con-

starit desire to swallow. Stringy mucus; detached with
difficulty.
516 MYGALE LASIODORA — MYOSOTIS — MYRICA

Relationship.—-Compare: Agar.; Tarant.; Cubr.;
Zizia,

Modalities. — Better, during sleep. Worse, in morn-
ing.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

MYOSOTIS
(Forget-me-not)

Chronic bronchitis and phthisis. Night-sweats.

Respiratory. — Cough with profuse muco-purulent ex-
pectoration, gagging and vomiting during cough; worse
while or after eating. Bronchorrhceea. Pain in left
lung (lower); painful while coughing and sensitive to
percussion.

Dose. — Tincture to second potency.

MYRICA
(Bayberry)

Marked action on the liver, with jaundice. Persistent
sleeplessness.

Mind. — Despondent, irritable, indifferent,

Head. -- Scalp feels tight. Headache, with drowsi-
ness; yellow sclerotica; aching in eyeballs. Pressure in
vertex and forehead. Pain and stiffness in nape of neck.

Face. —- Yellow. Itching and stinging. Creeping sen-
sation.

Mouth. — Tongue furred, with bad taste in mouth,
and nausea. Tenacivus, thick, nauseous secretion. Ten-
der, spongy, and bleeding gums. [Merc.]

Throat. — Constricted and rough feeling, with a con-

starit desire to swallow. Stringy mucus; detached with
difficulty.
MYRICA -— MYRISTICA SEBIFERA 517

Stomach. — Taste bitter and nauseous, with offensive
breath. Complete loss of appetite, but with a feeling of
fullness in the stomach after a hearty meal. Strong
desire for acids. Weak, sinking feeling in the epi-
gastrium, approaching’ nausea; increased after eating;
relieved by rapid walking.

Abdomen. — Dull pain in the region of the liver.
Complete jaundice, with bronze-yellow skin; loss of ap-
petite. Fullness in the stomach and abdomen. Scanty,
yellow, frothy urine.

Stool. — Constant discharge of flatus when walking.
Urging to stool, with no other results than the expul-
sion of a great amount of flatus. Loose, light-colored
stocl; ash-colored and destitute of bile.

Urinary. — Dark, frothy, scanty, high-colored, biliary.

Sleep.—-Disturbed, bad dreams and frequent wak-
ing; insomnia.

Extremities. — Pain under shoulder-blades and back
of neck, in all muscles, in hollow of right foot. Yel-
low and itching. Jaundice.

Relationship. — Compare: Picl.; Cornus cir.; Chelid.;
Lept.; Fagop.

Antidote: Digit. (jaundice).

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

MYRISTICA SEBIFERA
(Brazilian Ucuba)

A remedy of great antiseptic powers. Inflammation
of skin, cellular tissue and periosteum. Specific action
in panaritium. Pain‘in the finger nails with swelling
of the phalanges. Hands are stiff, as if from squeez-
ing something a long time. Coppery taste and burning
518 MYRISTICA SEB.— MYRTUS COM.—NAJA TRIP,

in throat. Tongue white and cracked. Phlegmonous
inflammations. Hastens suppuration. Often does away
with use of the knife. Inflammation of middle ear,
suppurative stage. Fistula in ano.

Dose. — Low potencies. .

MYRTUS COMMUNIS
(Myrtle)

Chest pains, as found often in consumptives, call for
this remedy. Incipient phthisis.

Chest. — Stitching pain in Ieft breast, running through
to shoulder-blade. [Illic.; Therid.; Pix.) Dry, hol-
low cough, with tickling in chest. Worse in the morn-
ing. Sensation of burning in left chest.

Relationship. — Compare: Myrtus Chekan (Chronic
bronchitis with dense, yellowish sputum, difficult to de-
tach. Copious capectoration keeps patient distressed and
coughing).

Dose. -—— Third potency.

NAJA TRIPUDIANS
(Virus of the Cobra)

Naja is not a hemorrhagic or septic, medicine like
Lachesis and Crotalus. Its action settles around the
heart; valvular troubles. Marked surging of blood up-
wards, marked dyspnoea, inability to lie on left side.
Hypertrophy, and valvular lesions. Organs seem to be
drawn together. Very susceptible to cold. With heart
symptoms, pain in torehead and temples. Diseases
primarily depending upon degeneration of motor cells.

Mind. — Broods constantly over imaginary troubles.
Suicidal insanity. [Aur.] Depressed. Aversion to
talking. Dreads to be left alone. Fear of rain.
NAJA TRIPUDIANS — NAPHTHALINE 519

Head. — Pain in left temple and in left orbital region,
extending to occiput, with nausea and vomiting. Hay-
fever, with dry larynx. Suffocative spells after sleep-
ing. [Lach.] Eyes staring. [Medorrh.]

Ears. — Illusions of hearing; otalgia: chronic otor-
rheea, black discharges; smells like herring brine.

Respiratory. — Grasping at throat, with sense of chok-
ing. Irritating, dry cough, dependent on cardiac lesions.
[Spong.; Lauroc.] Asthmatic constriction in evening.
Asthma beginning with coryza.

Heart. — With the heart symptoms pain in forehead
and temples. Pulse irregular in force. Threatened pa-
ralysis of heart, body cold, pulse slow, weak, irregular.
Acute and chronic endocarditis. Palpitation. Stitching
pain in region of heart. Angina pectoris. Damaged
heart after infectious discases

Female, — Neuralgia of ‘eft ovary; often serviceable
in obscure pain in left groin, especially in post-operative
cases; seems to be drawn to heart,

Sleep. — Profound, like a log, with stertorous breath-
ing, a typical reptilian state.

Modalities. — Worse, from use of stimulants; better,
from walking or riding in open air,

Relationship. — Compare: Bungarus Fasciatus
(Banded Krait).: This venom produces a condition like
an acute polio-encephalitis and myelitis, both symp-
tomatically and histologically. Lach.; Crotal.; Spig.;
Spong.

Dose, — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

NAPHTHALINE
(A chemical compound from Coal-tar; Tar Camphor)

Coryza, hay-fever, phthisis pulmonalis, also gonor-
rhoea, have been influenced favorably by this drug.
Pyelonephritis. Whooping-cough.
§20 NAPHTHALINE — NARCISSUS

Eyes. — Marked affinity for the eye. It produces de-
tachment of the retina; papillo-retinal infiltration; de-
posits in patches upon the retina; amblyopia and con-
secutive amaurosis; sparkling synchisis; soft cataract.
Exudation in the retina, choroid and ciliary body; cor-
neal opacity. Cataract. Opactiy of the cornea.

Urine. — Irresistible desire. Meatus red, swollen, and
cedema of prepuce. Black urine. Cutting pain down
penis. Pain in bladder. Terribly offensive odor of de-
composing ammoniacal urine,

Respiratory. — Sneezing; eyes inflamed; painful;
head hot. Hay-fever. Spasmodic asthma; better in open
air. Soreness in chest and stomach; must loosen cloth-
ing. Dyspnaa and sighing inspiration. Whooping-cough,
long and continued paroxysms of coughing, unable te
get a respiration. Acute laryngo-tracheitis. Bronchitis
when the spasmodic element is associated with tenacious
expectoration and oppression. ( Cartier.)

Non-homwopathic Uses. —~ For worms, and especially
pin-worms, one-gramme dose. Externally in skin dis-
eases, five per cent. ointment.

Relationship. — Compare: Dros., Corall.; Coccus.

Dose. — Third trituration.

NARCISSUS
(Daffodil)

Symptoms of nausea followed by violent vomiting
and diarrhea.

Daffodil bulbs contain an alkaloid the action of which,
according to authorities, varies as to whether the alka-
loid is extracted from the flowering bulb or from the
bulb after flowering. Thus in the former case the al-
killoid produces dryness of the mouth, checks cutaneous
Hicretions, dilates the pupil of the eye, quickens the

: pulse, and slows and weakens the heart contractions.
NARCISSUS — NATRUM ARSENICUM 521

On the other hand, the alkaloid from the bulbs after
flowering produces copious salivation, increases cutane-
ous secretion, contracts the pupil of the eye, produces
slight relaxation of the pulse, and slight faintness and
nausea. — The Lance}.

A remedy for cough and bronchitis. Coryza; frontal
headache. Convulsive stage of whooping-cough.

Skin. — Erythema of a papular, vesicular and pustular
type, aggravation in wet weather.

Dose. --- First attenuation.

NATRUM ARSENICUM
(Arseniate of Sodium)

A remedy for nasal catarrh, with headache, pain at
root of nose, dry and painful eyes. Psoriasis. [Ars.;
Chrys. ac.; Thyroid.|] Bronchitis of children over seven
years. Facilitates the termination of the cold and con-
sérves strength and appetite. (Cartier.)

Head. — Floating sensation on turning head quickly ;
aching in frontal region and root of nose, over orbits.
Headache; worse, pressure and tobacco smoke.

Nose. — Watery discharge; drops into throat. Feels
stopped; pain at root. Dry crusts, on removal, leave
mucous membrane raw. Post-nasal dropping of thick,
bland, yellowish mucus. Crusts in nose.

Ears. — Catarrhal conjunctivitis and blepharitis margi-
nalis, Eyes feel weak, stiffness of balls and tendency
of lids to close. Feel heavy and droop. Lachrymation
in wind. Agglutination in morning. Dry, painful, burn-
ing; soon tire. (C&denia of orbital region. Supraor-
bital pain.

Throat.— Dark, purplish, swollen, oedematous; red
and glassy.

Respiratory. — Racking cough, with profuse greenish
522 NATRUM ARSENICUM — NATRUM CARBONICUM

expectoration, Oppression of chest and about heart, and
also larynx. Miner’s asthma. Lungs feel as though
smoke had been inhaled.

Extremities. — Aching in arms; worse in shoulder.
Pain in anterior crural nerves. Joints stiff. Feels tired
all over. Knee-joints crack.

Relationship. — Compare: Ars.; Kali carb.; Apis.
Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

NATRUM CARBONICUM
(Carbonate of Sodium)

Great debility caused by summer heat; chronic effects
of sunstroke; exhaustion; anemic; milky, watery skin;
very weak ankles, are all peculiar Narrum carbonicum
conditions.

Mind. — Unable to think; difficult, slow comprehen-
sion, Anxious and restless during thunder storm; worse
from music. [Ambra.] Marked gayety.

Head. — Aches from slightest mental exertion, worse
from sun or working under gas-light, [Glon.] Feels
too large. Oversensitive of hearing. Head aches with
return of hot weather.

Nose. -— All troubles of external nose which may at-
tain a morbid size— pimples and puffiness. Constant
coryza; obstruction of nose. Catarrh; bad smell of
nasal secretion. Many troubles of external nose.
[Caust.] Posterior nasal catarrh. Hawking much mu-
cus from throat; worse, slightest draught.

Face. — Freckles, yellow spots, pimples. Swelling of
upper lip. Pale, with blue rings around eyes and swollen
NATRUM CARBONICUM 523

Stomach. — Feels swollen and sensitive. III effects of
drinking cold water when overheated. Waterbrash.
Very weak digestion, caused by slightest error of diet.
Averse to milk. Depressed after eating. Bitter taste.
Old dyspeptics, always belching, have sour stomach and
rheumatism. Dyspepsia relieved by soda biscuits.

Bowels. — Sudden call to stool. Escapes with haste
and noise Fellow substance like pulp of orange in dis-
charge. Diarrhea from milk.

Female.— induration of cervix. Pudenda sore.
Bearing-down sensation, [Sep.; Murea.] Heaviness:
worse, sitting; better, by moving. Menses late, scanty,
like meat-washings. [Nitric ac.]Leucorrhceal dis-
charge, offensive, irritating, preceded by colic.

Respiratory. — Dry cough, when coming into warm
room from out of doors. Cough with coldness of left
side of breast,

Sleep.— Wakes too early in morning. Amorous
dreams. Drowsy during day.

Extremities. — Old sprains. Great weakness of limbs,
especially in morning. Easy dislocation and spraining

‘of ankles. Foot bends under. [Caust.] Soreness be-
tween toes and fingers. Heel and tendo-Achilles af-
fected. Chapped hands. The hollow of the knee is
painful on motion.

Skin. — Inclination to perspire easily, or dry, rough,
cracked skin. Eruption on finger-tips, knuckles and
toes. Vesicular eruption in patches and circles.

Modalities. — Worse, sitting, from music, sun, summer
heat, mental exertion, thunder-storm. Least draught,
changes of weather. Better, by moving, by boring in
ears and nose.

Relationship. — Compare: Sodii bicarbonas (in vomit-
ing of pregnancy with acetonuria, 30 grains in water
524 NATRUM CARBONICUM —~ NATRUM CHLORATUM

spread over twenty-four hours); Nat. sulph.; Caust.;
Natr. cacodyl. (in phthisis, 5 centigrams hypodermically,
daily. Increase number of red blood corpuscles to
double. Also in malignant disease).

Antidote: Ars.; Camph,
Dose. — Sixth potency.

NATRUM CHLORATUM
(Labarraque’s Solution)

In congested and atonic states of the uterus and its
ligaments, with hepatic disorders. Chronic catarrhal
diseases of the middle ear. Flabby, debilitated consti-
tution. Both hands swollen in morning. Phlegmatic.
Depressed, faint.

Head. — Vertigo, with aching across forehead. Swim-
ming feeling, as if top of head would float off. Blecd-
ing of nose in clots.

Mouth. — Sore irritable spots along sides of tongue
and throat, gums sore, tongue swollen; aphthous ulcera-
tion. Putrid taste. Furred tongue, large, flabby, in-
dented. Cough with aphonia.

Stomach. — Drowsy after meals.

Urine. — Dark, with albumen and casts. Diffuse
nephritis. Much pain across small of back.

Female, — Feeling as if uterus were pushed up on sit-
ting down. [Ferr. tod.) Feels as if it opened and
shut. Violent metrorrhagia. Leucorrhoea and backache.
Passive, hearing-down from heavy condition of uterus.
Womb is heavy, sodden, with tendency to prolapse.

Extremities. — Hands swollen every morning. Ex-
‘tfeme weakness in ankles and knees.

“Relationship. — Compare: Aur. mur. nat.; Calc.;
NATRUM CHLORATUM — NATRUM MURIATICUM 525

Sepia; Heliotropium (uterine displacement, with active
bearing-down sensation and loss of voice; membranous
dysmenorrhea).

Antidotes: Pulsat.; Guaiacum.

Dose. — Fifteen to twenty drops of Labarraque’s solu-
tion in water. Third attenuation made with dilute alco-
hol, lower with water.

NATRUM MURIATICUM
(Chloride of Sodium)

A great remedy for certain forms of intermittent
fever, anemia, chlorosis, many disturbances of the ali-
mentary tract and skin. Great debility; most weakness
felt in the morning in bed. Emaciation most notable
in neck. Great liability to take cold. Dry mucous mem-
branes. Great weakness ard weariness. Oversensitive
to all sorts of influences. Hyperthyroidism.

‘Mind. — Depressed, particularly in chronic diseases.
Consolation aggravates. Irritable; gets into a passion
about trifle. Awkward, hasty. [Apis.]

Head.—Throbs. Blinding headache. [Kali bich.;
Sil.; Gels.) Aches as if a thousand little hammers
were knocking on the brain, in the morning on awaken-
ing, after menstruation, from sunrise to sunset. Feels
too large; cold. [Calc.; Laur.; Pod.] Anazmic head-
ache of school-girls. [Calc. phos.] Chronic headache,
from sunrise to sunset, with pale face, nausea, vomit-
ing; periodical; from eyestrain; menstrual. Before at-
tack, numbness and tingling in lips, tongue and nose.
Frontal sinus inflammation.

Eyes. — Feel bruised, with headache in school chil-
dren. Muscles weak and stiff. Letters run together.
Sees sparks. Fiery, zigzag appearance around all objects.
°
526 NATRUM MURIATICUM

Burning in eyes. Stricture of lachrymal duct with sup-
puration. Escape of muco-pus when pressing upon sac.
Lachrymation, burning and acrid. Lids swollen. Tears
stream down face on coughing. [Euph.] Asthenopia
due to insufficiency of internal rectt muscles, [Gels.
and Cup. acet., when due to cxternal muscles.] Pain
am cyes when looking down. Cataract incipient. [Secale.]

Ears. — Noises; roaring and ringing.

Nose. — I’iolent, fluent corysa, lasting from one to
three days, then changing into stoppage of nose, mak-
ing breathing difficult. Discharge thin and watery, like
raw white of egg. Violent sneezing coryza. Loss of
smell and taste. Internal soreness of nose.

Face. — Oily, shiny, as if greased. Earthy complex-
ion. Fever-blisters.

Mouth. — Frothy coating on tongue, with bubbles on
side. Sense of dryness Scorbutic gums. Numbness,
tingling of tongue, lips, and nose. Vesicles and burn-
ing on tongue, as if there was a hair on it. Eruptions
around mouth and vesicles like pearls on lips. Lips and
corners of mouth dry, ulcerated, and cracked. [Nit.
ac.] Tongue mapped, [Ars.; Rhus; Tarax.] Loss of
taste. [Gymmema.] Large vesicle on lower Jip, which
is swollen and burns.

Stomach. — Hungry, yet loose flesh. [Jod.] Heart-
burn, with palpitation. Unquenchabie thir t. Sweats
while cating, Craving for salt. Aversion to bread.
Throbbing in pit. Sticking sensation in cardiac orifice.

Abdomen. — Cutting pain in abdomen. Distended.
Pain in abdominal ring on coughing.

Rectum. --- Burning pains and stitching after stool.
Anug: contracted, torn, bleeding. Constipation; stool
diy, crumbling. (4m. m.; Mag. m.]
°
526 NATRUM MURIATICUM

Burning in eyes. Stricture of lachrymal duct with sup-
puration. Escape of muco-pus when pressing upon sac.
Lachrymation, burning and acrid. Lids swollen. Tears
stream down face on coughing. [Euph.] Asthenopia
due to insufficiency of internal rectt muscles, [Gels.
and Cup. acet., when due to cxternal muscles.] Pain
am cyes when looking down. Cataract incipient. [Secale.]

Ears. — Noises; roaring and ringing.

Nose. — I’iolent, fluent corysa, lasting from one to
three days, then changing into stoppage of nose, mak-
ing breathing difficult. Discharge thin and watery, like
raw white of egg. Violent sneezing coryza. Loss of
smell and taste. Internal soreness of nose.

Face. — Oily, shiny, as if greased. Earthy complex-
ion. Fever-blisters.

Mouth. — Frothy coating on tongue, with bubbles on
side. Sense of dryness Scorbutic gums. Numbness,
tingling of tongue, lips, and nose. Vesicles and burn-
ing on tongue, as if there was a hair on it. Eruptions
around mouth and vesicles like pearls on lips. Lips and
corners of mouth dry, ulcerated, and cracked. [Nit.
ac.] Tongue mapped, [Ars.; Rhus; Tarax.] Loss of
taste. [Gymmema.] Large vesicle on lower Jip, which
is swollen and burns.

Stomach. — Hungry, yet loose flesh. [Jod.] Heart-
burn, with palpitation. Unquenchabie thir t. Sweats
while cating, Craving for salt. Aversion to bread.
Throbbing in pit. Sticking sensation in cardiac orifice.

Abdomen. — Cutting pain in abdomen. Distended.
Pain in abdominal ring on coughing.

Rectum. --- Burning pains and stitching after stool.
Anug: contracted, torn, bleeding. Constipation; stool
diy, crumbling. (4m. m.; Mag. m.]
NATRUM MURIATICUM 527

Urine. — Pain just after urinating. [Sars.] Increased,
involuntary when walking, coughing, etc. Has to wait
a long time for it to pass if others are present. [Hep.;
Mur, ac.] .

Male. — Emission, even after coitus. Impotence with
retarded emission.

Female. — Menses irregular; usually profuse. Vagina
dry. Leucorrhcea acrid, watery. Bearing-down pains;
wotse in morning. [Scp.]  Prolapsus uteri, with cut-
ting in urethra, Ineffectual labor-pains. Suppressed
menses. [Follow with Kali carb.] Hot during menses.

Respiratory. — Cough from a tickling in the pit of
stomach, accompanied by stitches in liver and spurt-
ing of urine. [Caust.; Squilla.] Stitches all over chest.
Cough, with bursting pain in head. Shortness of breath,
especially on going upstairs. [Calc.]

Heart. — Fluttering, palpitating; intermittent pulse.
Heart’s pulsations shake body. IJntermits on lying down.

‘Extremities. — Pain in back, with desire for some firm
support. [Rhus; Sep.] Every movement accelerates
the circulation. Palms hot and perspiring. Arms and
legs, but especially knees, feel weak. Hangnails. Dry-
ness and cracking about finger-nails. Numbness and
tingling in fingers and toes. Ankles weak and turn
easily. Painful contraction of hamstrings. [Caust.]
Cracking in joints on motion. Coldness of legs with
congestion to head, chest, and stomach.

Sleep. — Sleepy in forenoon. Nervous jerking during
sleep. Dreams of robbers. Sleepless from grief.
[Phos. ac.; Ignat,]

Skin. — Lupus. [Ars.; X-Ray.] Urticaria; itch and
burn. Crusty eruptions in bends of limbs, margin of
scalp, behind ears. [Casst.] Warts on palms of hands.
Eczema; raw, red, and inflamed; worse, eating salt, at
528 NATRUM MURIATICUM

seashore. Affects hair follicles. Alopecia. Hives, itch-
ing after exertion.

Fever. — Chill between 9 and 11 a. M. Heat; violent
thirst, increases with fever. Fever-blisters. Coldness
of the body, and continued chilliness very marked. Hy-
dramia in chronic malarial states with weakness, con-
stipation, loss of appetite, etc.

Modalities. — }’orse, noise, music, warm room, lying
down; about 10 a. M., at seashore, mental exertion,
heat, talking. Better, open air, cold bathing, going with-
out regular meals, lying on right side; pressure against
back.

Relationship. — Complementary to Apis; Sepia, Ign.

Compare: Aqua marina—lIsotonic plasma. Marine
plasma is sea water taken some miles from shore and
some depth below surface, filtered and diluted with
twice as much pure fresh water. It acts primarily on
the blood, as in intoxications, scrofulous conditions, en-
teritis. It disintoxicates in cancer (administered sub-
cutaneously in the treatment of diseases of skin, kid-
neys and intestines, gastro-enteritis, and tuberculosis).
Scrofulous affection of children. Lymphadenitis.
Lupus, eczema, varicose ulcers. A great “blood puri-
fier and vitalizer.” Potentized sea-water in weakness,
lack of reaction; symptoms worse seaside. Sal marinum
(sea salt), indicated in chronic enlargements of glands,
especially cervical. Suppurating glands. It appears
likely to become a most useful remedy as an auxiliary,
if not as a principal, in the treatment of diseases in pa-
tients of a strumous diathesis. Also useful in consti-
pation. Natrum selenicwm (laryngcal phthisis with ex-
pectoration af small lumps of bloody mucus and slight
hoggseness. (Argent. met.])> Natrum silicum (hemo-

jilia ; scrofulous bone affections) ; Jqnat.; Sep.; Thuj.;

yaph.; Alum.
NATRUM MUR.— NATRUM NIT. —=NATRUM PHOS. 529

Antidotes: Ars.; Phos.

Dose. — Twelfth to thirtieth and higher. The very
highest potencies often yield most brilliant results.

NATRUM NITRICUM
(Nitrate of Sodium)

‘A Radeinacherian remedy for inflammations. [Acon.;
Ferr. phos.) Specific for nosebleed. Hamoptysis.
(Afillef.. Influenza. Hematuria. Purpura hemor-
rhagica. Hemorrhagic Variola.

Abdomen. — Flatuleni. Abdominal muscles become
painfully contracted towards the spine.

Relationship. -—- Compare: Natrum nitrosum (throb-
ling and fullness; faintness. nervous pain in head, nau-
sea, eructations, blue lips). Natrum silicofluoricum —
Salufer — (a cancer remedy; tumors, bone affection,
caries, lupus, ethmoiditis. Must be used carefully).

Dose. — Second trituration.

NATRUM PHOSPHORICUM
(Phosphate of Sodium)

Natrum phosphoricum is the remedy for conditions
arising from excess of lactic acid, often resulting from
too much sugar. Ailments, with excess of acidity. Sour
eructations and taste. Sour vomiting. Yellow, creamy
coating at the back of the roof of mouth and tongue.
Inflammation of any part of the throat, with sensation
of a lump in throat. Flatulence, with sour risings.
Colic, with symptoms of worms. Cracking of joints.
Jaundice (1x trit.).
$30 NATRUM PHOSPHORICUM

Mind, — Imagines, on waking at night, that pieces of
furniture are persons; that he hears footsteps in next
room. Fear,

Head. — Feels dull in the morning, full feeling and
throbbing.

Eyes. — Discharge of golden-ycllow, creamy matter
from the eyes. Dilation of one pupil. Whites of eyes
dirty yellow.

Ears.— One ear red, hot, frequently itchy, accom-
panied by gastric derangements and acidity.

Nose. — Offensive odor. Itching of nose. Naso-
pharyngeal catarrh, with thick, yellow, offensive mucus.

Face, — Paleness or bluish, florid appearance of face.

Mouth. — Canker sores of lip and cheeks. Blisters on
tip of tongue, with stinging in evening. Thin, moist
coating on the tongue. Yellow, creamy coating at the
back part of the roof of the mouth, Dysphagia. Thick,
creamy membranc over tonsils and soft palate.

Stomach. — Sour eructations, sour vomiting, greenish
diarvrhaa. Spits mouthful of food.

Male. — Emissions without dreams, with weakness in
back and trembling in limbs. Desire without erection.
Gonorrheea.

Female.— Menses too early; pale, thin, watery.
Sterility, with acid secretions from vagina. Leucor-
rheea; discharge creamy or honey-colored, or acid and
watery. Sour-smelling discharges from uterus. Morn-
ing sickness, with sour vomiting.

Extremities. — Rheumatism of the knee-joint.

Back. —- Weariness; aching in wrists and finger-joints.
Hamstrings sore. Synovial crepitation. Rheumatic
arthritis.

Sih. — Yellow. Itching in various parts, especially
NATRUM PHOSPHORICUM — NATRUM SALICYLICUM 531

of ankles. Hives. Smooth, red, shining. Erysipelas.
Feet icy cold in daytime, burn at night. Swelling of
lymphatic glands.

Relationship. — Compare: Natrum lactic. (rheuma-
tism and gout; gouty concretions) ; Nat. nitrosum (an-
gina pectoris, cyanosis, fainting, copious liquid stools
at night); Nat. selen. (chronic laryngitis and laryngeal
phthisis); Nat. silicofluor. (bone affections, caries) ;
Nat. sulphurosum (diarrhea, with yeasty stools); Nat.
sulpho-carbol. (pyaemia; purulent pleurisy, 3 to 5 grains
every three hours); Nat. telluricum (breath has odor
of garlic; night-sweats of phthisis); Calc.; Robin.;
Phos. In Jaundice 1x.

Dose. -— Third to twelfth trituration. Non-homco-
pathically, Phosphate Soda used hypodermically for
Morphine habit, by Dr. M, J. Luys. Phosphate Soda,
75 gr. daily, for constitutional iodism, thyroidism and
Grave’s disease.

NATRUM SALICYLICUM
(Salicylate of Sodium)

Has an extensive range of action affecting the head,
ear, throat, kidneys and liver and on metabolism.
Hemorrhages, especially epistaxis. Produces marked
effects upon the internal ear, with vertigo, deafness,
noises in ears and logs-of bone conduction, hence, its
use in Meniere’s disealt One of the Best remedies for
the prostrating after-effects of influenza, Lassitude,
drowsiness, listlessness, tremor. Incipient dementia.
Increases the quantity of bile.

Head.—Perfectly rational periods, alternate with
manifestations of insanity of a sombre character. Ver-
tigo; worse, raising head. All objects seem to move
532 NATRUM SALICYLICUM — NATRUM SULPHURICUM

to the right. Dull headache and confusion. Fibrositis
of the scalp.

Eyes. — Retinal hemorrhage, albuminuric retinitis
with hemorrhage.

Ears. — Tinnitus of a low tone. Deafness. Auditory
vertigo. [Petrol.; Tabac.; Chinin.]

Chest. — Dyspneea; breathing noisy, shallow, panting ;
pulse irregular. Complete loss of voice.

Skin. — Cidema, urticaria, red in circumscribed
patches. Tingling and itching. Pemphigoid eruption.

Relationship.— Compare: Lobelia purpurascens
(drowsiness; dizzy headache between eyebrows; can-
not keep eyes open; tongue white — feels paralyzed as
also do the heart and lungs; intense prostration of ali
vital forces; deadly chill, without shivering; useful for

the low, nervous prostration of grippe); Gaulth.;
China.

Dose. — Third potency.

Non-Homepathic Uses. — In acute articular rheu-
matism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. Usyal doses, ten to twenty
grains every three hours. Must be used carefully, as
it is often destructive of kidney tissue. Ordinary allo-
pathic doses allay the pain of dysmenorrhcea and pro-
mote menstrual flow. :

NATRUM SULPHURICUM
(Sulphate of Sodium — Glauber’s Salt)

A liver remedy, especially indicated for the so-called
hydrogenoid constitution, where the complaints are
such as are due to living in damp houses, basements,
cellars. They are worse in rainy weather, water in
any form. Feels every change from dry to wet; can-
NATRUM SULPHURICUM 533

not even eat plants growing near water, nor fish. Al-
ways feels best in warm, dry air. Clinically, it has
been found a valuable remedy for spinal meningitis,
head symptoms from injuries to head, mental troubles
therefrom. Every spring, return of, skin affections.
Tendency to warts. Fingers and toes affected.

Mind. — Lively music saddens. Melancholy, with
periodical attacks of mania Suicidal tendency; must
exercise resiraint. Inability to think. Dislikes to speak,
or to be spoken to.

Head.— Occipital pain. Piercing stitches in ears.
Vertigo; relieved by sweat on head. Bursting feeling
on coughing. Hot feeling on top of head. Boring in
right temple, preceded by burning in stomach.  IIl-
effects of falls and injuries to the head, and mental
trowbles arising therefrom.

Ears. — Sticking pain, earache, lightning-like stitches
in damp weather.

Nose. — Nasal catarrh, with thick, yellow discharge
and salty mucus. Coryza.

Eyes. — Conjunctiva yellow. Granular lids. Photo-
phobia. [Graphites.]

Mouth. — Slimy, thick, tenacious, white mucus. Bitter
taste, blisters on palate.

Throat. — Thick, yellow mucus, drops from posterior
nares.

Stomach. -—- Vomits sour. Brown, bitter coating on
tongue. Yellow complexion. Thirst for something
cold. Bilious vomiting, acid dyspepsia, with heartburn
and flatulence.

Abdomen. — Liver sore to touch, with sharp, stitching
pains; cannot bear tight clothing around waist; worse,
lying on left side. Flatulency,; wind colic in ascending
534 NATRUM SULPHURICUM

colon; worse, before breakfast. Burning in abdomen
and anus. Bruised pain and urging to stool. Loose
morning stools; worse, after spell of wet weather.
Stools involuntary, when passing flatus. Great size of
the fecal mass,

Urine. — Loaded with bile. Brick-dust sediment. Ex-
cessive secretion. Diabetes.

Female. — Nosebleed during menses, which are acrid
and profuse. Burning in pharynx during menstruation.
Herpetic vulvitis. Leucorrhea yellowish-green, follow-
ing gonorrhea in female. J.eucorrhcea with hoarseness.

Male.— Condylomata; soft, fleshy excrescences ;
greenish discharges. Gonorrhoea; discharge thick, green-
ish; little pain.

Respiratory. — Dyspnea, during damp weather. Must
hold chest when coughing. Humid asthma; rattling in
chest, at 4 and 5 a. mM. Cough, with thick ropy, green-
ish expectoration; chest feels all gone. Constant de-
sire to take deep, long breath. Asthma in children, as
a constitutional remedy. Springs up in bed the cough
hurts so; holds painful side. [Bry.] Pain through
lower left chest.

Back. — Itching when undressing. Violent pains in
back of neck, and at base of brain. Piercing pain be-
tween scapule, Spinal meningitis; opisthotonos.

Extremities. — Swelling of axillary glands. Inflam-
mation around root of nails. Burning in soles; oedema
of feet; itching between toes. Gout. Pain in limbs,
compels frequent change in position. Run-arounds.
Pain in hip-joints; worse, stooping. Stiffness of knees,
cracking of joints,

Skin. — Itching while undressing. Jaundiced, watery
blisters. Sycotic excrescences; wart-like red lumps all
@rer body.
NATRUM SULPHURICUM — NICCOLUM 535

Modalities. — Worse, lying on left side; dampness of
basement, damp weather. Better, dry weather, pres-
sure, changing position.

Relationship. — Compare: Malaria officinalis — de-
composed vegetable matter—Has evident power to
cause the disappearance of the plasmodium of malaria
and higher. (Malarial cachexia. General sense of
weariness. Spleen affections. Malaria and rheumatism.
Sixth potency.) Natrum choleinicum—Fel Tauri
Depuratum — (constipation; chronic gastric and in-
testinal catarrh; cirrhotic liver; diabetes: nape of neck
pains; tendency to sleep after cating; much flatus; as-
cites) ; Momordica — Balsam Apple — (Colic, dysmenor-
rhea with gushes of blood.) Pulmo vulpis — Wolf’s
lung (persistent shortness of breath causing a paroxysm
of asthma on the slightest motion. Strong, sonorous
bubbling rales. 1x trit.). Peumus Boldus — Boldo —
(atonic states of stomach and intestinal canal; liver
states following malaria. Burning weight in region of
liver and stomach, bitter taste, languor ; abscess of liver;
asthma, bronchitis, catarrh, cedema of lungs); Natrum
jodat. (chronic catarrhal affections, arteriosclerosis.
Here various symptoms, as angina pectoris, vertigo,
dyspnoea become less marked after continued use of 5-10
gers. 3 times a day.) Natrum hyposulph, (liver-spots,
locally and internally) ; Sulph.; Thuja; Merc.; Stilling.

Complementary: Ars.; Thuja.

Dose. — First to twelfth trituration.

NICCOLUM
(Metallic Nickel)

Periodical nervous sick headaches, with asthenopia,
weak digestion, constipation. Catarrh. Suits debilitated,
nervous, literary patients, with frequent headaches, dys-
pepsia and constipation,
536 NICCOLUM — NICCOLUM SULPHURICUM

Head. — Cracking in cervical vertebre when mov-
ing the head. Pain on top as froma nail. Pressure on
vertex, in morning; worse till noon and in warm room.
Stitches. Objects appear too large. Migraine; first on
left side. Twitching of upper lip.

Nose. — Violent sneezing; stopped up. Nasal
catarrh, with redness and swelling at tip of nose. Acute
pain at root of nose, extending to vertex and through
temples.

Throat. — Sore, right side with great tenderness;
soreness to touch externally, Strangulated feeling.

Gastric.— Gone, empty feeling in epigastrium,
without desire for food. Acute gastralgia with pains
extending to shoulder. Thirst and intense hiccough.
Sour, fetid secretions ooze from molar teeth. Diar-
rhoea and tenesmus after milk.

Female. — Menses late, scanty, with great debility
and burning in eyes. Profuse lencorrhoa;: worse, after
urinating [Mag. mur.; Plat.]; also worse after menses.

Respiratory.— Hoarseness. Dry, hacking cough,
with stitches in chest. Obliged to sit up and hold head.
Must put arms on thighs, when coughing.

Skin. — Itching all over, worse on neck, not relieved
by scratching.

Modalities. — Worse, periodically, every two weeks;
yearly, forenoon. Better, in evening.

Dose. — Third trituration.

NICCOLUM SULPHURICUM
(Sulphate of Nickel)

Useful in climacteric disturbances. Periodic neural-
gias of malarial origin. Urine and saliva increased.
Coppery taste. Weak, asthenopic literary persons with
weak digestion and constipation, are worse in morning
and suffer from periodic headaches.
536 NICCOLUM — NICCOLUM SULPHURICUM

Head. — Cracking in cervical vertebre when mov-
ing the head. Pain on top as froma nail. Pressure on
vertex, in morning; worse till noon and in warm room.
Stitches. Objects appear too large. Migraine; first on
left side. Twitching of upper lip.

Nose. — Violent sneezing; stopped up. Nasal
catarrh, with redness and swelling at tip of nose. Acute
pain at root of nose, extending to vertex and through
temples.

Throat. — Sore, right side with great tenderness;
soreness to touch externally, Strangulated feeling.

Gastric.— Gone, empty feeling in epigastrium,
without desire for food. Acute gastralgia with pains
extending to shoulder. Thirst and intense hiccough.
Sour, fetid secretions ooze from molar teeth. Diar-
rhoea and tenesmus after milk.

Female. — Menses late, scanty, with great debility
and burning in eyes. Profuse lencorrhoa;: worse, after
urinating [Mag. mur.; Plat.]; also worse after menses.

Respiratory.— Hoarseness. Dry, hacking cough,
with stitches in chest. Obliged to sit up and hold head.
Must put arms on thighs, when coughing.

Skin. — Itching all over, worse on neck, not relieved
by scratching.

Modalities. — Worse, periodically, every two weeks;
yearly, forenoon. Better, in evening.

Dose. — Third trituration.

NICCOLUM SULPHURICUM
(Sulphate of Nickel)

Useful in climacteric disturbances. Periodic neural-
gias of malarial origin. Urine and saliva increased.
Coppery taste. Weak, asthenopic literary persons with
weak digestion and constipation, are worse in morning
and suffer from periodic headaches.
NICCOLUM SULPHURICUM — NITRICUM ACIDUM 537

Head. — Nervous, uneasy, desire to recline, tired,
cannot settle down to any occupation. Periodic head-
aches, occipital pain, extending down to spine, worse
lying on back; sore pain in eyes.

Back. — Stiff, numb sensation, worse in neck. Spine
sore. Awakened in morning with burning soles. Spinal
pains, legs and arms heavy and weak, cannot lie on back.

Female. —- Du!l aching in ovaries, with sensation as
if menses appear. Hot flashes, followed by perspiration
on parts touching each other, when separated become
dry.

Dose. -— Second trituration.

NITRICUM ACIDUM
(Nitric Acid)

Selects for its special seat of action the outlets of the
body where the mucous membrane and skin meet; these
pain as from splinters. Marked improvement of all
symptoms while riding in a carriage. Acts best on the
dark complexioned and past middle life. Syphilis, after
abuse of Mercury. Pains appear and disappear quickly.
[Bell.]

Blisters and ulcers in mouth, tongue, genitals; bleed
easily. Fissures, with pain during stool, as if rectum
were torn. All discharges very offensive, especially
urine, faces, and perspiration. Persons who have
chronic diseases, and take cold easily and disposed to
diarrhoea. Excessive physical irritability. Cachexia, due
to syphilis, serofula, etc. Gravel; arthritis. Capillary
bleeding after currettage.

Mind. —/rritable, hateful, vindictive, headstrong.
Hopeless despair.

Head. — Sensation of a band around head. Headache
from pressure of hat; full feeling; worse from street
noises. Hair falls out. Scalp sensitive.
538 NITRICUM ACIDUM

Ears. — Difficult hearing; better by riding in car-
riage or train. Very sensitive to noise, as the rattle of
wagons over pavements. [Coff.; Nux.] Cracking in
ears when chewing.

Eyes. — Double vision; sharp, sticking pains. Ulcera-
tion of cornea.

Nose. —/Ozzena. Green casts from nose every
morning. Coryza, with sore and bleeding nostrils. Tip
red. Stitches, as of a splinter in nose. Caries of mastoid.
Nosebleed, with chest affections. Chronic nasal catarrh,
with yellow, offensive, corrosive discharge. Nasal diph-
theria, with watery and exeedingly excoriating discharge.

Mouth. — Putrid breath. Salivation. Bleeding of
gums. Painful pimples on the sides of the tongue.
Tongue clean, red and wet with center furrow, Teeth
become loose; gums soft and spongy. Ulcers in soft
palate, with sharp, splinter-like pains, Salivation and
fetor oris. Bloody saliva.

Throat. — Dry. Pain into ears. Hawks mucus con-
stantly. White patches and sharp points, as from
splinters, on swallowing.

Stomach. — Great hunger, with sweetish taste.
Longing for indigestible things —- chalk, earth, etc. Pain
in cardiac orifice. Dyspepsia with excess of oxalic acid,
uric acid and phosphates in urine and great mental de-
pression.

Abdomen, — Great straining, but little passes. Rec-
tum feels torn. Bowels constipated, with fissures in
rectum, Tearing pains during stools. Violent cutting
pains after stouls, lasting for hours. [Ratanh.}] Ham-
orrhages from bowels, profuse, bright. Prolapsus ani.
Hemorrhoids bleed easily. Diarrhoea, slimy and offen-
siye., After stools, irritable and exhausted. Colic re-
iéved from tightening clothes,
NITRICUM ACIDUM 539

Urine. — Scanty, dark, offensive. Smells like horse’s
urine. Cold on passing. Burning and stinging. Urine
bloody and albuminous,

Male. — Soreness and burning in glans and beneath
prepuce. Ulcers; burn and sting; exude, offensive
matter.

Female. — Externa! parts sore, with ulcers. [Hep.;
Merc.; Thuja.]  Leucorrbea brown, flesh-colored,
watery, or stringy, offensive. Hair on genitals falls
out. [Natr. m.; Zinc.] Uterine hemorrhages. Menses
early, profuse, like muddy water. Metrorrhagia after
parturition.

Respiratory.— Hoarseness. Aphonia, with dry
hacking cough, from tickling in larynx and pit of
stomach. Soreness at lower end of sternum. Short
breath on going upstairs. [Ars.; Calc.) Cough during
sleep. [Cham.]

Extremitites. — Fetid foot-sweat, causing soreness
of toes, with sticking pain; chilblains on toes, Sweating
of palms, hands; cold, blue nails. Offensive sweat in
axille at night.

Skin. — Warts, large jagged; bleed on washing.
Ulcers bleed easily, sensitive; splinter-like pains; zig-
zag, irregular edges; base looks like raw flesh. Ex-
uberant granulations. Black pores on face, papules
worse on forehead.

Modalities. — Worse, evening and night, cald climate,
and also hot weather. Better, while riding in carriage.
[Reverse: Cocculus.]

Relationship. — Complementary: Ars.; Calad.; Lac
can,

Inimical: Lach.

Compare: Merc.; Kali c.; Thuja; Hepar; Cale.
540 NIT, ACID— NITRI SPIR. DUL.—- NITRO-MUR, ACID.

Dose. — Sixth potency. As the nitric acid patient
begins to improve skin symptoms may appear for a
time, a favorable indication,

NITRI SPIRITUS DULCIS
(Sweet Spirits of Nitre)

Sensorial apathy in low fevers when there is stupor,
difficulty of arousing patient, is met by this remedy.
Ill-effects of salt (halophagia). [Ars.; Phos.) Catch-
ing cold in stormy weather. Acute nephritis following
Scarlet Fever. Salty taste.

Face, — Prosopalgia, with photophobia. Burning in
cheeks, and vomiting, followed by lassitude. Boring in
facial bones; in angles of lower jaw. Very sensitive
to cold.

Respiratory. — Very rapid breathing by going only
a short walk, Painful constriction beneath sternum.

Modalities. — Worse, from mental disturbance, during
winter and spring.

Relationship. — Increases the action of Digitalis.

Compare: Phos. ac.; Lycop.

Dose.— A few drops of the pure spirits in water
every two or three hours,

NITRO-MURIATIC ACID
(Aqua Regia)

Almost a specific in Oxaluria. Removes the distress-
ing skin symptoms resembling psoriasis. Three to five
drops three times a day. So-called bilious conditions.
Constricted anus. Gravel,

Mouth. — Gums bleed easily. Ptyalism. Constant
NITRO-MURIATIC ACID— NUPHAR LUTEUM 541

drooling at night. [Merc.] Cankers; small, superficial
ulceration over inside of mouth and tongue. Metallic
taste. [Cupr. met.]

Stomach. — Sour eructations, with empty hungry
feeling in stomach; not relieved by eating. Salivation;
worse at night,

Stool. —- Constipated, with ineffectual urging.
ephincter constricted. Anus moist and sore.

Urine. — Cloudy. Burning in urethra. Oxaluria.
Lysidin (ten drops of a 50 per cent. solution three
times a day. Irritable bladder, irregular heart, and
nervous symptoms). Also Kali sulph.

Dose. — Five to ten drops, well diluted.

NUPHAR LUTEUM
(Yellow Pond-lily)

Produces nervous weakness, with marked symptoms
in the sexual sphere.

Male. — Complete absence of sexual desire; parts
relaxed; penis retracted. Impotency, with involuntary
emissions during stool, when urinating. Spermatorrhea.
Pain in testicles and penis.

Stool. — Entero-colitis. Yellow diarrhoea; worse in
the morning. Diarrhea during typhoid.

Relationship. — Compare, in sexual weakness; Agnus;
Kali brom.; Lycop.; Selen.; Yohimbin, In diarrhea:
Chelid.; Gambog.; Sulph.; Nymphza odorata — Sweet
Water Lily — (early morning diarrhoea, backache).

Dose, — Tincture to sixth potency.
542 NUX MOSCHATA

NUX MOSCHATA
(Nutmeg)

Marked tendency to fainting fits, with heart failure.
Cold extremities, extreme dryness of mucous mem-
branes and skin. Strange feeling, with irresistible
drowsiness. General inclination to become unconscious
during acute attacks. Lypothynia. [/gnatia.] Staggers
on trying to walk.

Mind. — Changeable; laughing and crying. Con-
fused, impaired memory. Bewildered sense, as in a
dream. Thinks she has two heads.

Head. — Vertigo when walking in open air; aches
from eating a little too much. Feeling of expansion.
with sleepiness. Pulsating in head. Cracking sensation
in head. Sensitive to slightest touch in a draught of air.
Bursting headache; better hurd pressure.

Eyes. — Objects look larger, very distant, or vanish.
Motes before eyes. Mydriasis.

Nose. — Oversensitive to smell; nosebleed, dark
blood; dry, stopped up.

Mouth.— Very dry. Tongue adheres tu roof of
mouth; but no desire for water. Saliva like cotton.
[Berb.] Toothache in pregnancy. Tongue numb, paral-
yzed. Dryness of throat.

Stomach. — Excessively bloated. Flatulent dyspepsia.
Hiccough, and craving for highly-seasoned food. Retro-
cession of gout to stomach.

Abdomen. — Paralytic weakness of intestines. Enor-
mously distended. Stoul is soft, and yet is unable to
expel it, even with long straining. [Alum.] Faintness
during or after stool, Protruding piles.

Female. — Uterine hemorrhage. Menses too long,
NUX MOSCHATA 543

dark, thick. Leucorrhoea muddy and bloody, Sup-
pression, with persistent fainting attacks and sleepiness.
[Kali c.] Variableness of menstruation, irregularity of
time and quantity.

Respiratory. — Loss of voice from walking against
the wind. [Hep.] Cough when getting warm in bed.

Heart.— Trembling, fluttering. Sensation as if
something grasped heart. Palpitation; pulse intermits.

Extremities. — Pain in right hip to knee; worse,
motion, especially going upstairs, Rheumatism from
getting feet wet, from exposure to draughts, Rheuma-
tism relieved by dry, warm clothes. Fatigue on slight
exertion.

Sleep.--Great drowsiness. (Jndol.) Complaints
cause sleepiness. Coma.

Fever. — Chill begins in left hand. (Carbo.) Chilli-
ness and heat without thirst; want of perspiration. Dry
skin and of inner parts, also of eyes, nose, lips, mouth,
tongue, throat, etc.

Modalities. — Worse, cold moist wind, cold food, cold
washing, lying on painful side, motion, jar. Better,
warmth, dry weather.

Relationship. — Oleum myristice — Oil of Nutmeg —
(as a remedy for boils, felons, poisonous ulcers, it has
been used in the 2x potency) ; Ornithogalum (flatulence,
swollen feeling across lower chest; whenever she turns
in bed, feels as if a bag of water turned also; gastric
ulcer and cancer). Myristica Sebifera (phlegmonous
inflammations, hastens suppuration; powerful antiseptic.
Ulcerative tendency in all tissues. Said to act more
powerfully than Hepar and Silica).

Compare: Nux v.; Puls.; Rhus; Ign.; Asaf.

Antidotes: Camph.; Gels.; Valer.

Dose. — First to sixth potency.
544 NUX VOMICA

NUX VOMICA
(Poison-nut)

Is the greatest of polychrests, because the bulk of its
symptoms correspond in similarity with those of the
commonest and most frequent of diseases. It is fre-
quently the first remedy, indicated after much dosing,
establishing a sort of equilibrium of forces and counter-
acting predominant drug effects.

Nux is pre-eminently the remedy for many of the
conditions incident to modern life. The typical Nux
patient is rather thin, spare, quick, active, nervous, and
irritable, He does a good deal of mental work; has
mental strains and leads a sedentary life, found in pro-
longed office work, overstudy, and close application to
business, with its cares and anxieties. This indoor life
and mental strain seeks stimulants, coffee, wine, pos-
sibly in excess; or, again, he hopes to quiet his excite-
ment, by indulging in the sedative effects of tobacco, if
not really a victim, to the seductive drugs, like opium,
etc. These things are associated with other indulgences ;
at table, he takes preferahly rich and stimulating food;
wine and women play their part to make him forget the
close application of the day. Late hours are a conse-
quence; a thick head, dyspepsia, and irritable temper
are the next day’s inheritance. Now he takes some
cathartic, liver pills, or mineral water, and soon gets
into the habit of taking these things, which still further
complicate matters. Since these frailties are more
yielded to by men than women, Nux is pre-eminently a
male remedy. These conditions produce an irritable,
nervous system, hypersensitive and overimpressionable,
which Nux will do much to soothe and calm. Especially
adapted to digestive disturbances, portal congestion, and
hypochondrical states depending thereon. Convutsions,
NUX VOMICA 545

with consciousness ; worse, touch, moving. Zealous fiery
temperament. Nux patients are easily chilled, avoid open
air, etc. Nux always seems to be out of tune; inhar-
monious spasmodic action.

Mind. — Very irritable; sensitive to all impressions.
Ugly, malicious. Desires to kill loved ones; ‘impulse
deplored. Cannot bear noises, odors, light, etc. [Bell.]
Hypochondriacal mood. Does not want to be touched.
Time passes too slowly. [Alum.] Even the least ail-
ment affects her greatly. Disposed to reproach others.
Sullen, faultfinding.

Head. — Headache in occiput or over eyes, with
vertigo; brain feels turning in a circle. Oversensitive-
ness. Vertigo, with momentary loss of consciousness.
Intoxicated feeling; worse, morning, mental exertion,
tobacco, alcohol, coffee, open air. Pressing pain. on
vertex, as if a nail driven in. Vertigo in morning and
after dinner. Scalp sensitive. Frontal headache, with
desire to press the head against something. Congestive
headache, associated with hemorrhoids. Headache in
the sunshine, [Glon.; Nat. carb.] Feels distended and
sore within, after a debauch.

Eyes.— Photophobia; much worse in morning.
Smarting, dry sensation. in inner canthi. Infra-orbital
neuralgia, with watering of eyes. Optic nerve atrophy,
from habitual use of intoxicants. Paresis of ocular mus-
cles; worse, tobacco and stimulants.

Ears.—Itching in ear through Eustachian tube.
Auditory canal dry and sensitive. Otalgia; worse in
hed. Hyperesthesia of auditory nerves; loud sounds
are painful, and anger him.

Nose. — Stuffed up, at night especially. Stuffy colds,
siuffies, after exposure to dry, cold atmosphere; worse,
in warm room, Odors tend to produce fainting.
546 NUX VOMICA

Coryza; fluent in daytime; stuffed up at night and out-
doors; or alternates between nostrils. Bleeding in
morning. [Bry.] Arid discharge, but with stuffed-up
feeling.

_ Mouth. -— Jaws contracted. Small aphthous ulcers,
with bloody saliva. First half of tongue clean; pos-
terior covered with deep fur; white, yellow, cracked
edges. Teeth ache; worse, cold things Gums swollen,
white, and bleeding.

Throat. — Rough, scraped feeling. Tickling after wak-
ing in morning, Sensation of roughness, tightness, and
tension. Pharynx constricted. Uvula swollen. Stitches
into car.

Stomach. — Sour taste, and nausea in the morning,
after cating. Weight and pain in stomach; worse, eating,
some time after. Flatulence and pyrosis. Sour, bitter
eructations. Nausea and vomiting, with much retching.
Ravenous hunger, especially about a day before an
attack of dyspepsia. Region of stomach very sensitive
to pressure, [Bry.; Ars.] Epigastrium bloated, with
pressure as of a stone, several hours after eating. Desire
for stimulants. Dyspepsia from drinking strong coffee.
Difficult belching of gas. Wants to vomit, but cannot.

Abdomen. — Bruised soreness of abdominal walls.
{Apis; Sulph.]  Flatulent distention, with spasmodic
colic. Colic from uncovering. Liver engorged, with
stitches and soreness. Colic, with upward pressure,
causing short breath, and desire for stool. Weakness
of abdominal ring region, Strangulated hernia. [Op.}
Forcing in lower abdomen towards genitals. Umbilical
hernia of infants.

, Stool. — Constipation, with frequent ineffectual urging,
incomplete and unsatisfactory; feeling as if part re-
546 NUX VOMICA

Coryza; fluent in daytime; stuffed up at night and out-
doors; or alternates between nostrils. Bleeding in
morning. [Bry.] Arid discharge, but with stuffed-up
feeling.

_ Mouth. -— Jaws contracted. Small aphthous ulcers,
with bloody saliva. First half of tongue clean; pos-
terior covered with deep fur; white, yellow, cracked
edges. Teeth ache; worse, cold things Gums swollen,
white, and bleeding.

Throat. — Rough, scraped feeling. Tickling after wak-
ing in morning, Sensation of roughness, tightness, and
tension. Pharynx constricted. Uvula swollen. Stitches
into car.

Stomach. — Sour taste, and nausea in the morning,
after cating. Weight and pain in stomach; worse, eating,
some time after. Flatulence and pyrosis. Sour, bitter
eructations. Nausea and vomiting, with much retching.
Ravenous hunger, especially about a day before an
attack of dyspepsia. Region of stomach very sensitive
to pressure, [Bry.; Ars.] Epigastrium bloated, with
pressure as of a stone, several hours after eating. Desire
for stimulants. Dyspepsia from drinking strong coffee.
Difficult belching of gas. Wants to vomit, but cannot.

Abdomen. — Bruised soreness of abdominal walls.
{Apis; Sulph.]  Flatulent distention, with spasmodic
colic. Colic from uncovering. Liver engorged, with
stitches and soreness. Colic, with upward pressure,
causing short breath, and desire for stool. Weakness
of abdominal ring region, Strangulated hernia. [Op.}
Forcing in lower abdomen towards genitals. Umbilical
hernia of infants.

, Stool. — Constipation, with frequent ineffectual urging,
incomplete and unsatisfactory; feeling as if part re-
NUX VOMICA $47

mained unexpelled. Constriction of rectum. Irregular.
peristaltic action; hence frequent ineffectual desire, or
passing but small quantities at each attempt. Alternate
constipation and diarrhea —after abuse of purgatives.
Urging to stool felt throughout abdomen. Itching,
blind hemorrhoids, with ineffectual urging to stool;
very painful; after drastic drugs. Diarrhoea after a
debauch; worse, morning. Frequent small evacuations.
Scanty stool, with much urging. Dysentery; stools re-
lieve pains for a time. Constant uneasiness in rectum.
Diarrhoea, with jaundice. [Dig.]

Urine. — Irritable bladder; from spasmodic sphincter.
Frequent calls; little and often. Hematuria. ([Jpec.;
Tereb.| Ineffectual urging, spasmodic and strangury.
Renal colic extending to genitals, with dribbling urine.
While urinating, itching in urethra and pain in neck of
bladder.

Male, — Easily excited desire. Emissions from high
living. Bad effects of sexual excesses. Constrictive pain
in testicles. Orchitis. [Yama.; Puls.] Spermatorrhcea,
with dreams, backache, burning in spine, weakness and
irritability.

Female. — Menses too early, lasts too long; always
irregular, blood black [Cycl.; Lach.; Puls.) with faint
spells. Prolapsus uteri. Dysmenorrhaa, with pain in
sacrum, and constant urging to stool. Inefficient labor-
pains; extend to rectum, with desire for stool and fre-
quent urination. [Li/.] Desire too strong. Metror-
rhagia, with sensation as if bowels wanted to move.

Respiratory. — Catarrhal hoarseness, with scraping in
throat. Spasmodic constriction. Asthma, with fullness
in stomach, morning or after eating, Cough, with sen-
sation as if something were torn loose in chest. Shallow
respiration. Oppressed breathing. Tight, dry, hacking
548 NUX VOMICA

cough ; at times with bloody expectoration. Cough brings
on bursting headache and bruised pain in epigastric
region.

Back. — Backache in lumbar region. Burning in spine;
worse, 3 to 4 a.M. Cervico-brachial neuralgia; worse,
touch. Must sit up in order to turn in bed. Bruised pain
below scapulz, Sitting is painful.

Extremities. — Arms and hands go to sleep. Paresis
of arms, with shocks. Legs numb; feel paralyzed;
cramps in calves and soles. Partial paralysis, from
overexertion or getting soaked. [RAws.] Cracking in
knee-joints during motion. Drags his feet when walk-
ing. Sensation of sudden loss of power of arms and
legs in the morning.

Sleep. — Cannot sleep after 3 a.M. until towards
morning; awakes feeling wretchedly. Drowsy after
meals, and in early evening. Dreams full of bustle and
hurry. Better after a short sleep, unless aroused.

Skin. — Body burning hat, especially face; yet cannot
move or uncover without feeling chilly, Urticaria, with
gastric derangement. Acne; skin red and blotchy.

Fever. — Cold stage predominates. Paroxysms antici-
pate in morning. Excessive rigor, with blucness of
finger-nails. Aching in limbs and back, and gastric
symptoms. Chilly; must be covered in every stage of
fever. Perspiration sour; only one side of body. Chilli-
ness on being uncovered, yet he does not allow being
covered. Dry heat of the body.

Modalities. — Worse, morning, mental exertion, after
eating, touch, spices, stimulants, narcotics, dry weather,
cold. Better, from a nap, if allowed to finish it; in
evening, while at rest, in damp, wet weather [Caust,],
strong pressure. :

Relationship. —Complementary: Sulphur, Sepia.

Inimical : Zine,
NUX VOM.— NYCTAN. AR. TRIST.—OCIM. CAN. 549
a
Compare: Kali carb.; Hydr.; Bry.; Lyc.; Graph.
Antidotes: Coff.; Ignat.; Cocc.
Dose. — First to thirtieth potency and higher. Nux
is said to act best given in the evening.

NYCTANTHES ARBOR-TRISTIS
(Paghala-malli — Sad Tree)

Bilious and obstinate remittent fever; sciatica; rheu-
matism. Constipation of children.

Head. — Anxious and restless; dull headache. Tongue
coated,

Stomach. — Burning sensation, better cold application.
Thirst, better vomiting.

Abdomen. — Tenderness of liver. Profuse, bilious
stool, with nausea, Constipation.

Fever. — Thirst, before and during chill and heat;
better vomiting at close of chill; sweat not marked.
* Dose. — Tincturé, drop doses.

OCIMUM CANUM
(Brazilian Alfavaca)

Uric acid diathesis. Red sand in the urine is its
chief characeristic, and frequently verified. Swelling
of glands, inguinal and mammary. Renal colic, espe-
cially right side, Symptoms of renal calculus are pro-
nounced. .

Urine. — High acidity, formation of spike crystals of
uric acid. Turbid, thick, purulent, bloody; brick-dust
red or yellow sediment Odor of musk. Pain in wre~
ters, Cramps in kidneys. ‘
550 ocIMUM CAN.—CNANTHE CROC. — OLEANDER

Male, — Heat and swelling of left testicle.

Female. — Vulva swollen; darting pain in labia. Nip-
ples painful to least contact, Breasts feel full and tense.
Prolapsus vagine.

Relationship. — Compare: Berb.; Hedeoma; Lycop.;
Pareir.; Urticaria.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

OENANTHE CROCATA
(Water Dropwart)

Epileptiform convulsions; worse, during menstruation
and pregnancy. Puerperal eclampsia; uramic convul-
sions. Red spots in face. Convulsive facial twitching.
Skin affections, especially lepra and ichthyosis.

Head. — Sudden and complete unconsciousness. Furi-
ous delirium, giddiness. Countenance livid, eyes fixed,
pupils dilated, convulsive twitching of facial muscles,
trismus, foaming at month, locked jaws.

Respiratory. — Tickling cough, with rattling in the
lower part of the chest, and thick, frethy expectoration.
Heavy, spasmodic, stertorous breathing.

Extremities. — Convulsions; opisthotonos. Pain along
crural and sciatic nerves, commencing in back. Cold
hands and feet.

Relationship. — Compare: Cicuta; Kali brom.,

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth potency.

OLEANDER
(Rose-laurel)

Has a marked action on the skin and nervous sys-
stem, producing and curing paralytic conditions with
cramp-like contractions of upper extremities, Hemi-
plegia. Difficult articulation.
OLEANDER 551

Mind. — Memory weak; slow perception. Melancholy,
with obstinate constipation.

Head. — Vertigo and diplopia, when looking down.
Vertigo, when looking fixedly at an object, and on ris-
ing in bed. Pain in brain, as if head would burst.
Numb feeling. Dull, unable to think. Indolence, Erup-
tion on scalp, Tiumid, fetid spots behind cars [Graph.;
Petrol.J] and occiput, with red, rough, herpetic spots in
front. Corrosive itching on forehead and edge of hair;
worse, heat.

Eyes. — Can see objects only when looking at them
sideways. Eyes water on reading. Double vision. Sen-
sation as if eyes were drawn back into the head.

Face. — Pale, sunken, with blue rings around eyes.
[Phos. ac.]}

Stomach. — Canine hunger, with hurricd eating, with-
out appetite, Thirst. Empty belching. Vomiting of
food; greenish water. Throbbing in pit. Borborygmus,
with profuse, fetid flatus. Gnawing around navel.

Rectum. — Ineffegtual urging. Undigested faces.
Stool passes when emitting flatus. Burning pain in
anus.

Chest.— Oppression as from a weight; asthmatic
when lying down,” Pafpitation, with weakness and empty
feeling in chest. Dyspnea, Obtuse stitches in chest.

Extremities. — Weakness of lower limbs. Paralysis
of legs and feet. Want of animal heat in limbs, Cold
feet. Painless paralysis. Constant cold feet. Swelling,
burning stiffness of fingers. Veins on hands swollen.
Edema, Stiffness of joints.

Skin — Itching, scurfy pimples; herpes; sensitive and
numb, Nocturnal burning. Very sensitive skin; slight-
est friction causes soreness and chapping. Violent ttch-
552 OLEANDER — OLEUM ANIMALE

ing eruption, bleeding, oozing; want of perspiration.
Pruritus, especially of scalp, which is sensitive.

Modalities. — Worse, undressing, rest, friction of
clothes.

Relationship — Compare: Con.; Nat. m.; Rhus;
Caust.; Lathyr,

Antidotes: Camph.; Sulph.

Dose — Third to thirtieth potency.

OLEUM ANIMALE
(Dippel’s Animal Oil)

Acts on the nervous system, especially on pneumo-
gastric region. Useful in migraine and neuralgia of
spermatic cord, Burning pains and stitches. “Pulled
upward” and “from behind forward” pains.

Head — Tearing pain, with sadness and irritability;
worse after dinner; relieved by rubbing. Itching, burn-
ing vesicles; better, friction. Malar bones feel pulled
forcibly upward.

Eves — Smarting in eyes; mistys vision, Glistening
bodies before eyes. Lachrymation, when eating. Short-
sighted. Twitching of lids. [Agar.} ‘

Nose — Watery, excoriating dischkrge; worse in open
air.

Face — Feels drawn. Cramp-li pains. Tunitching
of lips. Malar bone feels pulledyupward. Toothache,
beticr pressing teeth together,

Mouth — Bites cheek white eating. [Cawst.] Tongue
feels sore. Greasy feeling in mouth.

Throat — Sore, dry, constricted. Air feels cold.

Stomach — Sensation as if water were in stomach; of
coldness, of constriction, and of burning; better, eruc-
tations, -
OLEUM ANIMALE — OLEUM JECORIS ASELLI 553

Abdomen — Flatulence and rumbling. Ineffectual
urging to stool, with burning in anus, After stool,
bruised pain in abdomen.

Urine.—Polyuric. Greenish urine, frequent and
urgent want to urinate, with tenesmus and_ scanty
emission, Itching in urethra.

Male. — Desire increased; ejaculation too soon. Pain
along spermatic cord to testicles. Testicles feel scized
and pulled forcibly upward; worse, right. Pressure in
the perineum. Prostatic hypertrophy.

Female. -— Early and scant menstruation; flow black,

Respiratory.— Chest feels constricted. Asthma
from suppressed foot-sweat. Oppression. Stitches in
breast from behind forward.

Extremities. — Sprained feeling in small of back.
Cracking of vertebrz on raising head. [Aloe; Nat. c.;
Thuj.]  Restlessness, Rheumatic pain in shoulders.
Fish-brine odor of sweat of heels.

Modalities. — Worse, after eating, from 2 to 9 p.m.
Better, by rubbing, eructation, open air. ’

Relationship. — Compare: Puls.; Ars.; Silic.; Sepia.

Antidotes: Camph.; Op.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency and higher.

OLEUM JECORIS ASELLI
(Cod-liver Oil)

Internally, a nutrient and a hepatic and pancreatic
remedy. (Burnett.) Emaciation, lassitude, scrofulous
diseases, rheumatic affections. Atrophy of infants;
emaciation with hot hands and head; restless and fever-
ish at night. Pains im liver region.

Chest. — Hoarseness. Sharp stitching pains. Burn-
ing spots. Dry, hacking, tickling cough, especially at
554 OLEUM JECORIS ASELLI— OLEUM SANTALI

night. Soreness through chest. Hemoptysis. [Acalypha
Millef.] Palpitation, accompanies other symptoms. Yel-
lowness. Children who cannot take milk.

Extremities. — Aching in elbows and knees, in sacrum.
Chronic rheumatism, with rigid muscles and tendons.
Burning in palms,

Fever. — Constantly chilly towards evening. Hectic
fever. Night-sweats.

Relationship. — Compare: Cholesterine; Tubercul.;
Phosph.; Iod. One litre of Ol. Jecoris contains 0.4
gram Iod. Also, Gadus morrhua — Cod — (frequent
breathing, with flapping of ale nasi; rush of blood to
chest; pain in lungs and cough; dry heat in palms).

Dose. — First to third trituration. Locally in
ring-worm, and nightly rubbing, for dwarfish, emaciated
babies.

OLEUM SANTALI
(Oil of Sandalwood)

The action in the urinary and sexual spheres is most
utilizable, especially in gonorrhoea. It is also a stimulat-
ing, disinfectant expectorant. Two or three drops on
sugar will frequently relieve the hacking cough, when
but little sputum is expectorated.

Male. — Painful erections; swelling of the prepuce.
Thick, yellowish, muco-purulent discharge. Deep pain
in perinuem.

Urine. — Frequent, burning, smarting, swelling, and
redness of meatus. Stream small and slow. Acute
aching in kidney region. Sensation of a ball pressing
against the urethra; worse, standing. Gleet, with pro-
fuse, thick discharge; chronic cystitis.

Dose. — Two to ten m. in capsules.
ONISCUS ASELLUS — ONOSMODIUM 555

ONISCUS ASELLUS — MILLEPEDES
(Wood-louse)

Has distinct diuretic properties; hence its use in
dropsies. Asthmatic conditions, with bronchial catarrh.
Head, — Boring pain behind right ear in mastoid
process. [Caps.] Violent pulsation of arteries. [Pothos;
Glonoine.| Painful pressure above the root of nose.
Stomach. — Persistent pressure in cardiac orifice.
Vomiting.
Abdomen. —: Distended ; mcteorism; very severe colic.
Urine. — Cutting, burning in urethra. Tenesmus of
bladder and rectum, with absence of stool and urine.
Relationship. — Compare: Pothos, faj.; Canth.
Dose. — Sixth potency.

ONOSMODIUM
(False Gromwell)

Want of power of concentration and co-ordination.
Vertigo, numbness and muscular prostration. Marked
association of head and eye symptoms, with muscular
tiredness and weariness.

A remedy for migraine. Headaches from eyestrain
and sexual weakness. It produces diminution of sex-
ual desire in both sexes; hence its homeeopathicity, in
sexual neurasthenia.. Depressed or lost sexual life in
women, Neuralgic pains. General prostration. Acts
as if born tired. .

Head.— Loss of memory. Nose feels dry. Con-
fused. Dull, heavy, dizzy, pressing upward in occiput.
Occipito-frontal pain in morning on walking, chiefly left
side. Pain in temples and mastoid. [Capsic.]

Eyes. — Vision blurred; optic disc hyperemic, and
retinal vessels enlarged. Strained feeling in eyes;
556 ONOSMODIUM

worse, using eyes. Eyes heavy and dull, muscular as-
thenopia; ocular muscles tense. Internal eye muscles
paretic. Pain in eyeballs between orbit and ball, ex-
tending to left temple.

Throat.— Severe dryness. Discharge from pos-
terior nares. Raw, scraping. Stuffed feeling in pos-
terior nares. Symptoms worse by cold drinks.

Abdomen, — Craving for ice-water and cold drinks;
wants to drink often. Abdomen feels bloated.

Back. — Pain in dorsal and lumbar regions. Numb-
ness and tingling in feet and legs.

Chest. — Sore, aching in breasts; feels swollen and
sore. Pain in heart; pulse, rapid, irregular, weak.

Male. — Constant sexual excitement. Psychical tm-
potence. Loss of desire. Speedy emissions. Deficient
erections.

Female.— Severe uterine pains; bearing-down
pains; old pains return. Sexual desire completely de-
stroyed. Feels as if menses would appear. Aching in
breasts. Nipples itch.” Menses too early and too pro-
longed. Soreness in uterine region. Leucorrhcea, yel-
low, acrid, profuse.

Extremities. — Pain in back. Tired and numb feeling
in legs, popliteal spaces, and below knees. Staggering
gait. Sidewalk seems too high. Pain in left scapular
region. Great muscular weakness and weariness.

Modalities. — Worse, from motion, jar, and tight
clothing. Better, when undressed, when lying down on
back, from cold drinks, and eating.

Relationship. — Compare: Nat. mur.; Lilium; Gels.;
Ruta.

Dose. — Thirtieth and higher have been used most
frequently, but it acts equally well in the 2x or 3x
attenuation.
556 ONOSMODIUM

worse, using eyes. Eyes heavy and dull, muscular as-
thenopia; ocular muscles tense. Internal eye muscles
paretic. Pain in eyeballs between orbit and ball, ex-
tending to left temple.

Throat.— Severe dryness. Discharge from pos-
terior nares. Raw, scraping. Stuffed feeling in pos-
terior nares. Symptoms worse by cold drinks.

Abdomen, — Craving for ice-water and cold drinks;
wants to drink often. Abdomen feels bloated.

Back. — Pain in dorsal and lumbar regions. Numb-
ness and tingling in feet and legs.

Chest. — Sore, aching in breasts; feels swollen and
sore. Pain in heart; pulse, rapid, irregular, weak.

Male. — Constant sexual excitement. Psychical tm-
potence. Loss of desire. Speedy emissions. Deficient
erections.

Female.— Severe uterine pains; bearing-down
pains; old pains return. Sexual desire completely de-
stroyed. Feels as if menses would appear. Aching in
breasts. Nipples itch.” Menses too early and too pro-
longed. Soreness in uterine region. Leucorrhcea, yel-
low, acrid, profuse.

Extremities. — Pain in back. Tired and numb feeling
in legs, popliteal spaces, and below knees. Staggering
gait. Sidewalk seems too high. Pain in left scapular
region. Great muscular weakness and weariness.

Modalities. — Worse, from motion, jar, and tight
clothing. Better, when undressed, when lying down on
back, from cold drinks, and eating.

Relationship. — Compare: Nat. mur.; Lilium; Gels.;
Ruta.

Dose. — Thirtieth and higher have been used most
frequently, but it acts equally well in the 2x or 3x
attenuation.
OOPHORINUM — OPERCULINA TURPETHUM —opP, 557

OOPHORINUM
(Ovarian Extract)

Suffering following excision of the ovaries. Nervous
symptoms at climacteric. Climacteric disturbances.
Ovarian cysts. Cutaneous disorders and acne rosacea.
Prurigo,

Relationship. — Compare: Orchitinum — Testicular
Extract — (after ovariotomy, sexual weakness, senile
decay).

Dose. --- Low triturations.

OPERCULINA TURPETHUM
(Nishope)

A remedy for plague, fevers, diarrhea.

Mind. — Delirium associated with restlessness, to-
quacity. Tendency to escape from bed; ravings, pains
cause fainting.

Abdomen. — Watery diarrhea, profuse with sinking
sensation, Cholrea morbus. Hemorrhoids.

Skin.— Lymphatic glands enlarged and indurated.
Boils and slowly suppurating abscesses.

OPIUM. —PAPAVER SOMNIFERUM
- (Poppy)

The effects of Opium as shown in the insensibility
of the nervous system, the depression, drowsy stupor,
and torpor, the general sluggishness and lack of vital
reaction, contitute the main indications for the drug
when used homcopathically. All complaints aré char-
acterized by sopor. They are painless, and are accom-
558 OPIUM — PAPAVER SUMNIFERUM

panied by heavy, stupid sleep, stertorous breathing.
Sweaty skin. Dark, mahogany-brown face. Serous
Apoplexy — venous, passive congestion, Want of sen-
sitiveness to the action of medicines. Reappearance and
aggravation from becoming heated. Opium lessens
voluntary movements, contracts pupils, depresses higher
intellectual powers, lessens self-control and power of
concentration, judgment; stimulates the imagination,
checks all secretions except that of the skin.

Mind. — Patient wants nothing. Complete loss of con-
sciousness; apoplectic state. Frightful fancies, daring,
gay, bright. Unable to understand or appreciate his
sufferings. Thinks he is not at home. Effects of fright,
generally. [Acon.]

Head. — Vertigo; lightness of head in old people.
Dull, heavy, stupid. Delirium. Vertigo after fright.
Pain in back of head; great weight there. [Gels.]
Bursting feeling. Paralysis of brain,

Eyes. — Half-closed, dilated; pupils insensible,
contracted. F'tosis. [Gels.; Caust.] Staring, glassy.

Face.— Red, bloated, swollen, dark suffused, hot.
Looks intoxicated, besotted. [Bapt.; Lach.} Spasmodic
facial twitching, especially corners of mouth. Veins of
face distended. Hanging down cf lower jaw. Dis-
torted.

Mouth.--Dry. Tongue black, paralyzed. Bloody
froth. Intense thirst. Biubbering of lips.

Stomach. — Vomiting, with colic and convulsions.
Fecal vomiting. Incarcerated hernia. Hungry; no
desire to eat,

Abdomen. — Hard, bloated, tympanitic. Lead colic.
During colic, urging te stool and discharge of hard
faeces.

Stool. — Obstinate constipation; no desire to go to
stool. Round, hard, black balls, Faces protrude and
OPIUM — PAPAVER SOMNIFERUM 559

recede. [Thuj.; Sil.] Spasmodic retention of faces in
small intestines. Stools involuntary, black, offensive,
frothy. Violent pain in rectum, as 1f pressed asunder.

Urine. — Slow to start; feeble stream. Retained or
involuntary, after fright. Loss of power or sensibility
of bladder.

Female. — Suppressed menses from fright. Cessa-
tion of labor-pains with coma and twitchings. Puerperal
convulsions; drowsiness or coma between paroxysms.
Threatened abortion and suppression of lochia, from
fright. with sopor. Horrible labor-like pains in uterus,
with urging to stool.

Respiratory. — Breathing stops on going to sleep;
must be shaken to start it again. [Grindelia.] Hoarse.
Deep snoring; rattling, stertorous breathing. Difficult,
intermittent, deep, unequal respiration. Heat in chest;
burning about heart. Cough, with dyspnoea and blue
face; with bloody expectoration.

Sleep.— Great drowsiness. [Gels.; Nux mosch.]
Loss of breath on falling asleep. [Grind.] Coma vigil.
Picking at bedclothes Very sleepy, but cannot go to
sleep. Distant noises, cocks crowing, etc. keep him
awake. Child dreams of cats, dogs, black forms. Bed
feels so hot cannot lie on it. Pleasant, fantastic, amor-
ous dreams. Shaking chill; then heat, with sleep and
sweat. Thirst only during heat.

Fever.— Pulse full and slow. Heat extending over
body. Hot perspiration. Fever characterized by stupor,
snoring respiration, twitching of limbs, intense thirst
and sleepiness.

Back and Extremities.— Opisthotonos. Swollen
veins of neck. Painless parlaysis, [Oleand.] Twitching
of limbs. Numbness. Jerks as if flexors were overact-
ing. Convulsions; worse from glare of light; coldness
of limbs.
560 OPIUM — PAP, SOM. — OPUNTIA — FICUS IND.

Skin. — Hot, damp, sweating. Constant desire to
uncover. Hot perspiration over whole body except lower
limbs.

Modalities. — Worse, heat, during and after sleep.
[Apis; Lach.] Better, cold things, constant walking.

Relationship. — Compare: Apis; Bell.; Gets.: Nux
mosch.; Morphinum (extreme susceptibility to pain;
twitching; tympanites; much itching); Codein (dry,
teasing, incessant cough; twitching of muscles, espe-
cially those of eyelids); Eschscholtzia — California
Poppy — (a harmless soporofic).

Antidote: Ipecac.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth and 200th potency.

Non-Homeeopathic Preparations and Uses. —
Palliative only in great pain, sleeplessness, peritonitis,
and to check excessive secretion in diarrhoea, diabetes, etc.

Opium (crudc). Official dose, 1 grain.

Laudanum (tincture) — Dose, 5 to 20 drops.

Paregoric (an elixir of Opium) — Dose, up to % oz.

Morphine — % to %4 grain.

Magendie’s solution —16 grains to 1 oz. or 5 drops
equal to 1/6 grain.

Codein — % to 1 grain.

Dover’s Powder (Opium and Ipecac) —5 to 15 grains.

Apomorphia — 1/20 to 1/10 grain hypodermically.

OPUNTIA — FICUS INDICA
(Prickly Pear)

Diarrhoea, with nausea. Feels as if bowels were
settled down in lower abdomen. Sick feeling in lower
third of abdomen.

Relationship. — Compare : Chaparas amorgosa (which
‘Mexican physicians laud as a specific in chronic diar-
‘ OREODAPH NE — ORIGANUM 561

rhea). Ricinus communis (diarrhoea, dysentery, ob-
stinate chronic diarrhoea).
Dose. — Second attenuation.

CREODAPHNE
(California Laurel)

Neuralgic headache, cerebro-spinal meningitis, atonic
diarrhea, and intestinal colic.

Head. — Dizziness; worse on stooping or moving.
Head heavy, eyelids heavy, twitching Intense aching,
with pressure at inner angle of either orbit, generally.
left, extending through brain and across scalp to the
base of the occiput; worse, light, noise; better, closing
eyes and perfect quiet. Constant, dull ache in cervical
awd occipital region, extending to scapula down spine,
into the head; pain into the ears. Great heaviness of
head, with constant desire to move the head, which
does not relieve. Drooping eyelids. Twitching.

Stomach. —- Eructations, with nausea and shud-
dering.

Dose. — First to third potency. Olfaction of the
tincture.

ORIGANUM
(Sweet Marjoram)

Acts on nervous system generally, and is effective in
masturbation and excessively aroused sexual impulses.
Affections of the breasts. [Bufo.]

Female. — Erotomania; powerful lascivious impulses;
leucorrhcea; hysteria. WLascivious ideas and dreams.

Relationship. — Compare: Ferula glauca (in violent
sexual excitement in women; icy coldness in occiput) ;
Plat.; Valer.; Canth.; Hyos.

Dose. — Third potency.
562 ORNITHOGALUM UMBELLATUM — OSMIUM

ORNITHOGALUM UMBELLATUM
(Star of Bethlehem)

To be considered in chronic gastric and other ab-
dominal indurations, possibly cancer of intestinal tract,
especially of stomach and cecum. Center of action is
the pylorus, causing painful contraction with duodenai
distention.

Depression of spirits. Complete prostration. Feel-
ing of sickness keeps patient awake at night.

Stomach. — Tongue coated. Agonizing feeling in
chest and stomach, starting from pylorus with flatus
that rolls in balls from one side to the other, loss of
appetite, phlegmy retchings and loss of flesh. (R. T.
Cooper.) Pains incrcased when food passes pyloric
outlet. Vomiting of coffee-ground-looking matter. Dis-
tention of stomach. Frequent belching of offensive
flatus. Painful sinking across epigastrium.

Dose. — Single doses of mother tincture and await
action.

OSMIUM
(The Element)

Irritation and catarrh of respiratory organs. Eczema.
Albuminuria. Paix in trachea. Increases and gives
odor to local perspiration. Causes adhesion of the nail
fold. '

Head. — Feels as if a band around head. Falling
off of hair. [Kali carb.; Fluor. ac.]

Nose. — Coryza, with full feeling in nose. Nose
and larynx sensitive to air. Small lumps of phlegm from
posterior nares.

Eyes. — Glaucoma; with iridescent vision. Violent
qyora:, and infra-orbital neuralgia; violent pains and
OSMIUM — OSTRYA VIR. — OVI GAL, PEL. 563

lachrymation. Green colors surround candle-light. Con-
junctivitis. Increase in intraocular tension, dim sight,
photophobia.

Respiratory. — Acute laryngitis; cough and expec-
toration of tough, stringy mucus. Convulsive cough;
feels as though membrane were torn from larynx. Noisy,
dry, hard, cough, in violent short bursts, coming from
low down, shaking the whole body. Talking causes
pain in laiynx. Hoarse; pain in larynx; sore sternum.
Twitching of fingers, with spasmodic cough.

Skin.— Eczema, with pruritus. Irritated skin,
Itching pimples. Bromidrosis, sweat in axilla smelling
of garlic, worse evening and night. Fold remains
attached to growing nail.

Relationship. — Compare: Argent.; Iridium; Selen.;
Mangan.

Dose. — Sixth potency.

OSTRYA VIRGINICA
(Ironwood)

Of great value in anemia from malaria. Bilious con-
ditions and intermittent fever.

Gastric. — Tongue yellow; coated at the root, Loss
of appetite. Frequent nausea, with dull, frontal head-
ache. Sickening pains.

Dose. — First to third potency.

OVI GALLINAE PELLICULA
(Membrane of Egg-shell)

Sudden pains. Bearing-down sensation. Intolerance
of bands on wrists, arms, waist, etc. Backache and
pain in left hip. Debility. Pain in heart and left ovary.

Relationship. — Compare: Cale.; Naja; Ova test—
564 OVI GALLINZ PELLICULA —OXALICUM ACIDUM

Testa preparata — Roasted egg-shells — Calcarea
ovorum — (leucorrhcea and backache. A feeling as if
the spine were broken and wired, or tied together with
a string. Warts). Also Egg Vaccine for Asthma.
Much interest is shown in Dr. Fritz Talbot’s method
to cure one form of asthma in children by the use of
egg vaccine. Asthma due to susceptibility of the pro-
teid substance in eggs can be cured by immunizing
against egg poisons by repeated doses of egg white.
After the skin has been cleansed with soap and alco-
hol the egg-white is rubbed into a slight scratch.

OXALICUM ACIDUM
(Sorrel Acid)

Influences the spinal cord, and produces motor pa-
ralysis. Pains very violent, in spots (Kali bich.) worse,
motion, and thinking of them. Periodical remissions.
Spasmodic symptoms of throat and chest. Rheumatism
of left side. Neurasthenia. Tuberculosis.

Head.— Sense of ‘heat. Confusion and vertigo.
Headache, before and during stooi.

Eyes. — Severe pain in eyes; feel expanded. Hyper-
esthesia of retina.

Stomach. — Burning pain, extending upwards;
slightest touch causes excruciating pain. Bitter and
sour eructation, worse at night. Cannot eat strawberries.

Abdomen,— Pain in upper part and region of
navel two hours after eating, ‘with much flatulence.
Stitches in liver. Colic. Burning in small spots in
abdomen. Diarrhea from coffee.

Male. Terrible neuralgic pains in spermatic cord.
MPesticles feel contused and heavy.
OXALICUM ACIDUM 565

Respiratory. — Nervous aphonia with cardiac de-
rangement. [Coca; Hydrocy, ac.] Burning sensation
from throat down. Breathing spasmodic, with con-
striction of larynx and chest. Hoarseness. Left lung
painful. Aphonia. Paralysis of the tensors of vocal
cord. Dyspnea; short, jerking inspirations. Sharp pain
through lower region of left lung, extending down
to epigastrium.

Heart. -- Palpitation and dyspnova in organic heart
disease ; worse, when thinking of it. Pulse feeble. Heart
symptoms alternate with aphonia, angina pectoris;
sharp, lancinating pain in left lung coming on suddenly,
depriving of breath. Przcordial pains which dart to
the left shoulder. Aortic insufficiency,

Extremities. — Numb, weak, tingling. Pains start
from spine and extend through extremities. Drawing
and lancinating pains shooting down extremities. Back-
ache; numb, weak. Muscular prostration. Wrist pain-
ful, as if sprained. [Ulmus.] Lower extremities blue,
cold, insensible.

Skin. — Sensitive, smarting and soreness, worse
shaving; mottled, marbled in circular patches. Per-
spires easily.

Modalities. — Worsc, left side; slightest touch; light;
shaving. Aroused about 3 a.m. with gastric and ab-
dominal pain.

Relationship. — Compare: Ars.; Colch.; Arg.; Pic.
ac.; Scolopendra — Centipede — (terrible pains in back
and loins, extending down limbs; return periodically,
commencing in head, to toes. Inflammation, pain and
gangrene. Pustules and abscesses),

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.
566 OXYDENDRON — ANDROMEDA ARBOREA — OXYTROPIS

OXYDENDRON — ANDROMEDA ARBOREA
(Sorrel-tree)

A remedy for dropsy —ascites and anasarca. Urine
suppressed. Deranged portal circulation. Prostatic en-
largement. Vesical calculi. Irritation of neck of blad-
der. Great difficulty of breathing. Tincture. Com-
pare: Cercfolius (dropsy, Bright’s disease, cystitis).

OXYTROPIS
(Loco-weed)

Marked action on nervous system. Trembling, sen-
sation of emptiness. Walks backwards. Congestion of
spine and paralysis. Pains come and go quickly.

Mind. — Desires to be alone. Disinclined to work
or talk. Wuoise, thinking of symptoms. [O-valic. ac.]
Mental depression. Vertigo. [Granatum.]

Head. — Full, warm feeling about head. Feeling of
intoxication, with loss of vision. Pain in maxillary
bones and masseter muscles. Mouth and nose dry.

Eyes. — Sight obscured; pupils contracted; do not
respond to light. Paralysis of nerves and muscles of
eyes.

Stomach. — Eructations with colicky pains, Epi-
gastrium tender. .

Rectum, — Sphincter seems relaxed. Stools slip
from anus, like lumps of jelly, mushy.

Urine.— Urging to urinate when thinking of it.
Profuse flow, Pain in kidneys. [Berberis.]

“Male.— No desire or ability. Pain in testicles and
ad spermatic cord and down thighs.

Extremities. — Pair along ulnar nerve. Numb
566 OXYDENDRON — ANDROMEDA ARBOREA — OXYTROPIS

OXYDENDRON — ANDROMEDA ARBOREA
(Sorrel-tree)

A remedy for dropsy —ascites and anasarca. Urine
suppressed. Deranged portal circulation. Prostatic en-
largement. Vesical calculi. Irritation of neck of blad-
der. Great difficulty of breathing. Tincture. Com-
pare: Cercfolius (dropsy, Bright’s disease, cystitis).

OXYTROPIS
(Loco-weed)

Marked action on nervous system. Trembling, sen-
sation of emptiness. Walks backwards. Congestion of
spine and paralysis. Pains come and go quickly.

Mind. — Desires to be alone. Disinclined to work
or talk. Wuoise, thinking of symptoms. [O-valic. ac.]
Mental depression. Vertigo. [Granatum.]

Head. — Full, warm feeling about head. Feeling of
intoxication, with loss of vision. Pain in maxillary
bones and masseter muscles. Mouth and nose dry.

Eyes. — Sight obscured; pupils contracted; do not
respond to light. Paralysis of nerves and muscles of
eyes.

Stomach. — Eructations with colicky pains, Epi-
gastrium tender. .

Rectum, — Sphincter seems relaxed. Stools slip
from anus, like lumps of jelly, mushy.

Urine.— Urging to urinate when thinking of it.
Profuse flow, Pain in kidneys. [Berberis.]

“Male.— No desire or ability. Pain in testicles and
ad spermatic cord and down thighs.

Extremities. — Pair along ulnar nerve. Numb
OXYTROPIS — PONIA 507

feeling about spine. Staggering gail. Loss of co-ordina-
tion. Patellar tendon reflex lost. Pains come and go
quickly, but muscles remain sore and stiff.
Sleep. — Restless, dreams of quarrel.
Modalities. — Worse, thinking of symptoms (mono-
maniac tendency). Better, after sleep.
Relationship. Compare: -tstrag.; Lathyr.; Oxal.
ac.; Baryte (J.oco plant is rich in Baryta). Lolium.
Dose. — Third potency.

PAEONIA
(Peony)

The rectal and anal symptoms are most important.
Chronic ulcers on lower parts of body, leg, foot, tue,
_also breast, rectum.

Head. — Rush of blood to head and face. Nervous.
Vertigo when moving. Burning in eyes and_ ringing
in ears.

Rectum. — Biting, itching in anus; orifice swollen.
Burning in anus after stool; then internal chilliness.
Fistula ani, diarrhoea, with anal burning and internal
chilliness. Painful ulcer, oozing offensive moisture on
perineum. Hemorrhoids, fissures, ulceration of onus
and perineum, purple, covered with crusts. Atrocious
pains with and after each stool. Sudden, pasty diar-
rhea, with faintness in abdomen. ;

Chest. — Sticking pain in left chest. Heat in chest.
Dull shooting from front to back through heart.

Extremities.— Pain in wrist and fingers; knees
and toes, Weakness of legs, inhibiting walking.

Sleep. — Terrifying dreams, nighmare.
Skin. — Sensitive, painful. Ulcers below coccyx,
568 PEONIA — PALLADIUM

around sacrum; varicose veins. Ulcers in general,
from pressure, bed-sores, etc. Itching, burning, as
from nettles.

Relationship. — Compare: Haman.; Sil.; | Aese.;
Ratanh. (great constriction of anus; stools forced with
great effort).

Antidotes: Ratanh.; Aloe.

Dose. — Third potency.

PALLADIUM
(The Metal)

An ovarian remedy; acts also on mind and skin.
Motor weakness, averse to exercise,

Mind. — Weeping mood. Love of approbation. Pride;
easily offended. Inclined to use violent language. Keeps
up brightly when in company, much exhausted after-
wards, and pains aggravated,

Head. —- Feels as if swung backward and forwards.
Temporo-parietal neuralgia’ with pain in shoulder. Pain
across top of head from ear to ear; worse after an
evening’s entertainment. Sallow complexion.

Abdomen. — Shooting pain from navel to pelvis.
‘Sensation as if intestines were bitten off. Intestines feel
strangulated. Soreness of abdomen, swelling in right
groin. Flatulency. [Nat. sulp.; Lycop.}

Female. — Subacute pelvic peritonitis, with right-
sided pain and backache; menorrhagia. Cutting pain in
uterus; relieved after stool. Pain and swelling in
region of right ovary. Shooting or burning pain in
pelvis and bearing-down; relieved by rubbing. Soreness
and shooting pain from navel to breast. Glairy leucor-
rhoea. Menstrual discharge while nursing. Stitches in
right! breast near nipple.
PALLADLUM — PARAFFINE 569

Extremities. — Pruritus. Tired feeling in small of
back. Fleeting, neuralgic pains in extremities. Heavy
and tired in limbs. Darting pains from toes to hips.
Rheumatic pain in right shoulder; in right hip. Sciatica.

Relationship. —- Complementary: Plat.

Compare: Arg.; Helon.; Lil.; Apis.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

PARAFFINE
(Purified Paraffin)

Valuable in uterine affections. Particularly service-
able, in constipation. Knife-like pains. Pains extend
from one part to another, and alternate. Pain in
stomach alternates with pain in throat and spine.

Head, — Left side of head and face suffer miost;
pains stinging and twisting. Pain as if a nail were
‘driven in left side of vertex. Twisting in left ear.

Eyes. — Vision dim; black specks before. Lids red.
Sensation as if there were fat on the eyes.

Mouth, — Tearing, twisting pain in teeth down to
lower jaw. Full of saliva; feels sticky; bitter taste.

Stomach.— Hungry ai! the time. Pain across
stomach. Pain in stomach alternates with pain in
throat and spine, extends to chest with belching. Fixed
pain in left hypochoridrium, as if parts were being
twisted. Palpitation with stomach pains,

Abdomen. — Pain in lower abdomen, extending to
genitals, rectum and coccyx ; better, sitting.

Rectum. —- Frequent desire for stool. Obstinate con-
stipation in children, [Alumina; Nyctanthes.) Chronic
constipation, with hemorrhoids and continual urging
to stool, without result.
570 PARAFFINE — PAREIRA BRAVA

Female. — Mensces too late, black, abundant. Milky
leucorrhceea. Nipples pain when touched, as if sore in-
side. Stabbing pain in mons veneris. Very hot urine
with burning pains in vulva.

Extremities. — Pain in spine extending to inguinal
region and in both loins, when ascending the stairs.
Feeling of electric shocks in all joints. Wrenching
pain in calves, extending into toes, in joints. Feet
swollen with tearing in ankles and soles.

Skin. — Burns. even of third degree, with slough-
ing and sepsis. Wash with sterile water and dry and
spray with paraffine, and cover with thin layer of cot-
ton. Useful also in frost bites.

Relationship. — Compare: Naphthalin;  Petrol.;
Kreos.; Eupion.

Dose. — Lower triturations and thirtieth potency.

PAREIRA BRAVA
(Virgin-vine)
The urinary symptoms are most important. Useful
in renal colic, prostatic affections, and catarrh of blad-
der,

Urinary. — Black, bloody, thick mucous urine.
Constant urging; great straining; pain down thighs dur-
ing efforts to urinate. Can emit urine only when he
zoes on his knees, pressing head firmly against the floor.
Feeling of the bladder being distended and neuralgic
pain in the anterior crural region. [Staph.] Dribbling
after micturition. [Selen.] Violent pain in glans penis.
Itching along urethra; urethritis, with prostatic trouble.
Inflammation ot urethra; becomes almost cartilaginous.

Relationship. — Compare: Parietaria (renal calculi;
‘nightmare, patient dreaming of being buried alive) ;
PAREIRA BRAVA — PARIS QUADRIFOLIA.' 571

Chimaphila (chronic catarrhal congestion following
cystitis; acute prostatitis; feeling of a ball in perineum
when sitting) ; Fabiana (dysuria; post-gonorrheeal com-
plications; gravel; vesical catarrh); Carica Papaya —
Pawpaw tree — (said to be effective against lumbri-
coides and as a vegetable pepsin). Papaya (pain from
perineum to middle of penis, as though a rough, jagged
body forced itself out; pain in left testicle; straining
when first urinating in the morning, as from an ob-
struction) ; Uva.; Hydrang.; Berber.; Ovim.; Hedeom.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potencv.

PARIS QUADRIFOLIA
(One-berry)

Head symptoms marked and verified. Sensation of
expansion and consequent tension. Coldness of right
side of body, left hot. Catarrhal complaints, stuffed
feeling at root of nose.

Mind. — Imaginary foul smells. Feels too large.
Garrulous, prattling, vivacious.

Head. — Sensation as if scalp were contracted and
bones scraped. Soreness of top of head; cannot brush
hair. Aches, as from pulling a string from cyes to
occiput. Occipital headache, with a feeling of weight.
Head feels very large. expanded. Scalp sensitive.
Numb feeling on left side of head.

Eyes. — Affections of the eyebrows. Eyes feel
heavy, as if they were projected; sensation of a string
through eyeballs. Expanded, as though lids did not
cover.

Face. — Neuralgia; hot stitches in left malar bone,
which is very sore. Has relieved in inflammation of
the antrum, where eye symptoms co-existed.
572 PARIS QUAD, — PARTHENIUM — ESCOBA AMARGO

Mouth. — Tongue dry when awaking — coated white,
without thirst, with bitter or diminished taste.

Respiratory. — Stuffed condition and fullness at
root of nose. Periodical, painless hoarseness. Cough as
from vapor of sulphur in trachea. Constant hawking,
on account of viscid, green mucus in larynx and trachea.

Extremities. — Sense of weight and weariness in nape
of neck and across shoulders. Neuralgia, beginning in
left intercostal region, and extending into left arm.
Arm becomes stiff, fingers clenched, Neuralgia of
spine; pain at about sixth cervical vertebra. Neuralgia
of coccyx; pulsating, sticking, when sitting. Fingers
often feel numb. Numbness of upper limbs.

Relationship.—- Compare: Pastinaca — Parsnip —
(Loquacity; delirium tremens; illusions of vision; in-
tolerance of milk); Sil.; Calc.; Nux; Rhus.

Incompatible: Ferr, phos

Antidote: Coff.

Dose. -— Third potency.

PARTHENIUM — ESCOBA AMARGO
(Bitter-broom)

A Cuban remedy for fevers, especially malarial. In-
creased flow of milk. Amenorrhoea and general debility.
Cheyne-Stokes breathing. After Quinine.

Head. — Aches, extending to nose; feels swelled;
pain in frontal eminence. Eyes heavy; eyeballs ache.
Ringing in ears. Pain at root of nose; feels swollen.
Aching in teeth. Teeth feel on edge; too long. Dis-
ordered vision. Tinnitus and pain in ears.

Abdomen. — Pain in left hypochondrium. Spleen
affections.
PARTHENIUM — PASSIFLORA IN, — PAULLINIA sur. 573

Modalities. — Worse, after sleep, sudden motion.
Better, after rising, and walking about.

Relationship. — Compare: China; Ceanoth.; Helianth.

PASSIFLORA INCARNATA
(Passion-flower)

An efficienc anti-spasmodic. Whooping-cough. Mor-
phine habit. Delirium tremens. Convulsions in chil-
dren; neuralgia. Has a quieting effect on the nervous
system. Insomnia, neuroses of children, worm-fever,
teething, spasms. Tetanus. Hysteria; puerperal con-
vulsions. Painful diarrhoea. Acute mania. Atonic con-
dition generally present. Asthma, 10-30 gtt. every ten
minutes for a few doses. Locally, in erysipelas.,

Head. — Violent ache as if top of head would come
off —eyes felt as if pushed out.

Stomach. — Leaden, dead feeling after or between
meals; flatulence and sour eructations.

Sleep. — Restless and wakeful, resulting from ex-
haustion. Insomnia of infants and the aged, and the
mentally worried, and overworked, with tendency to
convulsions. Nocturnal cough.

Dose. — Large doses of mother tincture are re-
quired — thirty to sixty drops, repeated several times.

PAULLINIA SORBILIS
(Guarana)

Contains a large percentage of Caffein, which may
explain its use as a remedy for certain forms of sick
headache.

Head. — Intelleciual excitement. Sick headache in
574 PAULLINIA SORBILIS — PENTHORUM — PERTUSSIN

persons who have used tea and coffee in excess. Throb-
bing headache after use of liquor.

Bowels. — Stools profuse, bloody, bright green;
flakes intermixed; odorless . Cholera infantum.

Skin. — Chloasmata on temples and arms. Utricaria.
[Dulc.; Apis; Chloral.]

Sleep. — Uncontrollable sleepiness and heaviness of
head, with flushed face after eating.

Dose. — Must he given in material doses — fifteen
to sixty grains of the powder.

PENTHORUM
(Virginia Stonecrop)

A remedy for coryza, with rawness and wet feeling
in nose. Throat feels raw. Chronic disorders of
mucous membranes, with irritability. Chronic post-nasal
catarrh; chronic pharyngitis, mucous membrane purple
and relaxed. Posterior nares feel moist and raw; nose
and ears feel tull. Aphonia, hoarseness, relaxcd vocal
cords. Hpersecretion of mucous membranes. Itching
of anus and burning in rectum. Trouble in pharyngeal
vault and Eustachian tube.

Nose. — Constant wet feeling in nose, which no
amount of blowing will relieve. Discharge thick, pus-
like, streaked with blood. Pest-nasal catarrh of puberty.

Dose.— Not very active, and better adapted to
chronic affections; its use should be persisted in for
some time. Lower potencies.

Relationship. — Compare: Sang.; [ydr.

PERTUSSIN
(Coqueluchin)

Taken from the glairy and stringy mucus containing
the virus of whooping-cough, Introduced by John H.
Clarke for the treatment of whooping-cough and other
spasmodic coughs.
PERTUSSIN — PETROLEUM 575

Relationship. — Compare: Drosera; Corallium; Cup-
rum; Naphthal; Mephitis; Passiflor.; Coccus Cacti;
Magnes. phos.

Dose. — The thirtieth potency.

PETROLEUM
(Crude Rock-oil)

Strumous diathesis, especially the dark type, who
suffer from catarrhal conditions of the mucous mem-
branes, gastric acidity and cutaneous eruptions.

Very marked skin symptoms, acting on sweat and
oil glands. Ailments are worse during the winter sea-
son, Ailments from riding in cars, carriages, or ships;
lingering gastric and lung troubles; chronic diarrhoea.
Long-lasting complaints follow mental states — fright,
vexation, etc. Chlorosis in young girls with or without
ulceration of the stomach.

Mind. — Marked aggravation from mental emotions.
Loses his way in streets. Thinks he is double, or some
one else lying alongide. Feels that death is near, and
must hurry to settle affairs. Irritable, easily offended,
vexed at everything. JL.ow-spirited, with dimness of
sight.

Head. — Sensitive, as uf a cold breese blowing on it.
Feels numb, as if made of wood; occiput heavy, as of
lead. [Opium.] Vertigo on rising, felt in occiput, as
if intoxicated, or like seasickness. A/oist eruption on
scalp; worse, back and ears. Scalp sore to touch,
followed by numbness. Headache, must hold temples
to relieve; provoked by shakjng while coughing. Use
thirtieth.

Eyes. — Loss of ecyclashes. Dim sight; far-sighted;
cannot read fine print without glasses; blenorrheea of
lachrymal sac; margial blepharitis. Canthi fissured.
Skin around eyes dry and scurfy,
576 PETROLEUM

Ears.— Noise unbearable, especially from several
people talking together. Eczema, intertrigo, etc., in and
behind ears, with intense itching. Parts sore to touch.
Fissures in meatus. , Dry catarrh, with deafness and
noises.

Nose. — Nostrils ulcerated, cracked, burn; tip of nose
itches. Epistaxis. Ozena, with scabs and muco-puru-
lent discharge.

Face. — Dry; feels constricted, as if covered with
albumin.

Stomach. — Strong aversion to fat food, meat;
worse, eating cabbage. Hunger, immediately after stool.
Nausea, with accumulation of water in mouth. Gastral-
gia when stomach is empty; relieved by constant eating.
[Anac.; Sep.] Must rise at night and eat. [Psorin.]
Odor of garlic.

Abdomen. — Diarrhaa only in the daytime; watery,
gushing and itching of anus. After cabbage; with
empty feeling of stomach.

Male. — Herpetic eruption on perineum. Prostate
inflamed and swollen. Itching in urethra.

Female.— Before menses, throbbing in head.
[Kreos.] Leucorrheea, profuse, aibuminous. [Alum.;
Bor.; Bov.; Calc. p.) Genitals sore and moist. Sensa-
tion of moisture. [Eup. purp.] Itching and mealy coat-
ing of nipple.

Respiratory. — Hoarseness. [Carbo; Caust.; Phos.]
Dry cough and oppression of chest at night. Cough
produces headache. Oppression of chest; worse, cold
air. Dry cough at night, coming deep from chest.
Croup and laryngeal diphtheria (Petrol. oii 10 to 30
minims.).

Heart. — Sensation of coldness. [Carb. an.; Nat.
mur.) Fainting, with ebullitions, heat, and palpitation.

Extremities. — Chronic sprains. Fetid sweat in ax-
576 PETROLEUM

Ears.— Noise unbearable, especially from several
people talking together. Eczema, intertrigo, etc., in and
behind ears, with intense itching. Parts sore to touch.
Fissures in meatus. , Dry catarrh, with deafness and
noises.

Nose. — Nostrils ulcerated, cracked, burn; tip of nose
itches. Epistaxis. Ozena, with scabs and muco-puru-
lent discharge.

Face. — Dry; feels constricted, as if covered with
albumin.

Stomach. — Strong aversion to fat food, meat;
worse, eating cabbage. Hunger, immediately after stool.
Nausea, with accumulation of water in mouth. Gastral-
gia when stomach is empty; relieved by constant eating.
[Anac.; Sep.] Must rise at night and eat. [Psorin.]
Odor of garlic.

Abdomen. — Diarrhaa only in the daytime; watery,
gushing and itching of anus. After cabbage; with
empty feeling of stomach.

Male. — Herpetic eruption on perineum. Prostate
inflamed and swollen. Itching in urethra.

Female.— Before menses, throbbing in head.
[Kreos.] Leucorrheea, profuse, aibuminous. [Alum.;
Bor.; Bov.; Calc. p.) Genitals sore and moist. Sensa-
tion of moisture. [Eup. purp.] Itching and mealy coat-
ing of nipple.

Respiratory. — Hoarseness. [Carbo; Caust.; Phos.]
Dry cough and oppression of chest at night. Cough
produces headache. Oppression of chest; worse, cold
air. Dry cough at night, coming deep from chest.
Croup and laryngeal diphtheria (Petrol. oii 10 to 30
minims.).

Heart. — Sensation of coldness. [Carb. an.; Nat.
mur.) Fainting, with ebullitions, heat, and palpitation.

Extremities. — Chronic sprains. Fetid sweat in ax-
PETROLEUM -— PETROSELINUM 577

ill. Knees stiff. Tips of fingers rough, cracked, fis-
sured every winter. Scalding sensation in knee. Crack-
ing in joints,

Skin. — Itching at night. Chilblains, moist, itch and
burn. Bed-sores. Skin dry, constricted, very sensitive,
rough and cracked, leathery. Herpes. Slightest scratch
makes skin suppurate. [Hepar.] Intertrigo; psoriasis
of hands. Thick, greenish crusts, burning and itching;
redness, raw’; cracks bleed easily. Rhagades worse in
winter.

Fever. —- Chilliness, followed by sweat. Flushes of
heat, particularly of the face and head; worse at night.
Perspiration on feet and axille.

Modalities. — Worse, dampness, before and during a
thunder-storm, from riding in cars, passive motion; tn
winter, eating, from mental states. Better, warm air.

Relationship. —- Compare: Carbo; Graph.; Sulph.;
Phos.; Plumbago. (Eczema of hands; vesicular erup-
tions.)

Complementary : Sepia.

Antidotes: Nur; Coccul,

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency. Material doses
often better.

PETROSELINUM
(Parsley)

The urinary symptoms give the keynotes for this
remedy. Piles with much itching.

Urinary. — Burning, tingling, from perineum through-
out whole urethra; sudden urging to urinate; frequent,
voluptuous tickling in fossa navicularis. Gonorrhoea;
sudden, irresistible desire to urinate; intense biting, ttch-
ing, deep in urethra; milky discharge.

Stomach. — Thirsty and hungry, but desire fails on
beginning to eat or drink.
578 PETROSELINU M — PHASEOLUS — PHELLANDRIUM

Relationship. — Compare: .Jpiol—the active prin-
ciple of Parsley — (in dysmenorrhea) ; Canth.; Sars.;
Cannab.; Merc,

Dose. — First to third potency.

PHASEOLUS
(Dwarf-bean)

Heart symptoms quite pronounced. Diabetes.

Head. — Aches chiefly in forehead or orbits from full-
ness of brain; worse any movement or mental exertion.

Eyes. — Pupils dilated, insensible to light. Eyeballs
painful to touch.

Chest. — Breathing slow and sighing. Pulse rapid.
Paipitation. Sick feeling about heart, with weak pulse.
Right ribs sore. Dropsical effusion into pleura or peri-
cardium.

Urinary. — Diabetic urine.

Heart. — Fearful palpitation and feeling that death is
approaching,

Relationship. — Compare: Crateg.; Lach.

Dose. —- Sixth and higher. A decoction of the shells
as a drink for diabetes, but look out for severe head-
ache.

PHELLANDRIiUM
(Water Dropwort)

The respiratory symptoms are most important, and
have been frequently verified clinically. A very good
remedy for the offensive expectoration and cough in
phthisis, bronchitis, and emphysema. Tuberculosis, af-
fecting generally the middle lobes. Everything tastes
sweet. Hamoptysis, hectic and colliquative diarrhcea.

Head. — Weight on vertex, aching and burning in
temples and above eyes. Crushing feeling in vertex.
PHELLANDRIUM — PHOSPHORICUM ACIDUM 579

Eyes. — Ciliary neuralgia; worse any attempt to use
eyes. Lachrymation. Cannot bear light. Headache;
involving nerves going to eye.

Female. — Pain in milk ducts; intolerable between
nursing. Pain in nipples.

Chest.— Sticking pain through right breast near
sternum, extending to back near shoulders. Dyspnoea,
and continuous cough, early in morning. Cough, with
profuse and fetid expectoration; compels him to sit up.
Hoarseness,

Fever. — Hectic; profuse and debilitating perspiration ;
intermittent, with pain in arms. Desire for acids.

Extremities. — Tired feeling when walking.

Relationship. — Compare: Con.; Phyt.; Sil.; Ant.
tod.; Myosotis arvensis (phthisis, with copious purulent
sputa, emaciation, and night-sweats).

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth potency. In phthisis not
below the sixth.

PHOSPHORICUM ACIDUM
(Phosphoric Acid)

The common acid “debility” is very marked in this
remedy, producing a nervous exhaustion. Mental de-
bility first; later physical. A congenial soil for the
action of Phos. acid is found in young people who grow
rapidly, and who are evertaxed, mentally or physically.
Whenever the system has been exposed to the ravages
of acute disease, excesses, grief, loss of vital fluid, we
obtain conditions calling for it. Inflammation of bones.
Neurosis in stump, after amputation. Hamorrhages in
typhoid.

Mind. — Listless. Impaired memory. [Anac.] <Ap-
athetic, indifferent. Cannot collect his thoughts or find
the right word. Difficult comprehension. Effects of
580 PHOSPHORICUM ACIDUM

x grief and mental shock. Delirium, with great stupefac-
‘tion. Settled despair.

Head. — Heavy; confused. Pain as if temples were
crushed together. Worse, shaking or noise. Crushing
headache. Pressure on top. Hair gray early in life;
falls out. Dull headache after coition; from eye-strain.
[Nat. m.] Vertigo toward evening, when standing or
walking.

Eyes. — Blue rings around. Lids inflamed and cold.
Pupils dilated. Glassy appearance. Feel too large.
Amblyopia in masturbators. Optic nerves seem torpid.
Pain as if eyeballs were forcibly pressed together and
into head.

Ears. — Roaring, with difficult hearing.

Nose. — Bleeding. Bores fingers into nose. I[tching.

Mouth. — Lips dry, cracked. Bleeding gums; retract
from teeth. Tongue swollen, dry, with viscid, frothy
mucus. Teeth feel cold. At night, bites tongue in-
voluntarily.

Face. — Pale, earthy; feeling of tension as from dried
albumen. Sensation of coldness of one side of face.

Stomach. — Craves juicy things. Sour risings. Nau-
sea. Symptoms following sour food and drink. Pres-
sure as from a weight, with sieepiness after eating.
[Fel tauri.] Thirst for cold milk,

Abdomen. — Distention and fermentation in bowels.
Enlarged spleen. [Ceanoth.] Aching in umbilical re-
gion. Loud rumbling.

Stool. — Diarrhoea, white, watery, involuntary, pain-
less, with much flatus; not specially exhausting.

Urine. — Frequent, profuse, watery, milky. Diabetes.
Micturition. preceded by anxiety and followed by burn-
ing. Frequent urination at night,

Male. — Emissions at night and at stool. Seminal

« vesiculitis. [Oval. acid.) Sexual power deficient; testi-
PHOSPHORICUM ACIDUM 581

cles tender and swollen. Parts relax during embrace.
[Nux.] Prostatorrhea, even when passing a soft stool.
Eczema of scrotum. (Cédema of prepuce, and swollen
glans-penis. Herpes preputialis. Sycotic excrescences.
[Thuja.}

Female. — Menses too early and profuse, with pain in
liver. Itching; yellow leucorrhcea after menses. Milk
scanty; health deteriorated from nursing.

Respiratory. — Chest troubles develop after brain-fag.
Hoarseuess. Dry cough from tickling in chest. Salty
expectoration. Difficult respiration. Weak feeling in
chest from talking. |Stann.] Pressure behind the ster-
num, rendering breathing difficult.

Heart. — Palpitation in children who grow too fast;
after grief, self-abuse. Pulse irregular, intermittent.

Back. — Boring pain between scapula. Pain in back
and limbs, as if beaten,

Extremities. —- Weak. Tearing pains in joints, bones,
and periosteum. Cramps in upper arms and wrists.
Great debility. Pains at night, as if bones were scraped.
Stumbles easily and makes missteps. Itching, between
fingers or in folds of joints.

Skin. — Pimples, acne, blood-boils. Ulcers, with very
offensive pus. Burning red rash. Formication in vari-
ous parts. Falling out of the hair. [Nat. mur.; Selen.]
Tendency to abscess after fevers.

Sleep. — Somnolency. Lascivious dreams with emis-
sions.

Fever. —- Chilliness. Profuse sweat during night and
morning. Low types of fever, with dull comprehension
and stupor.

Modalities. — Better, from keeping warm. Worse, ex-
ertion, from being talked to; loss of vital fluids; sexual
excesses.
582 PHOSPHORICUM ACIDUM — PHOSPHORUS

Relationship. — Compare: Nectranda amare. (Watery
diarrhoea, dry tongue, colic, bluish ring around sunken
eyes, restless sleep). China; Nux; Pic. ac.; Lactic ac.;
Phos. :

Antidote: Coffea.

Dose. — First potency.

PHOSPHORUS
(Phosphorus)

Phosphorus irritates, inflames and degenerates mucous
membranes, irritates and inflames serous membranes,
inflames spinal cord and nerves, causing paralysis, de-
stroys bone, especially the lower jaw und tibia; disor-
ganizes the hlood, causing fatty degeneration of blood
vessels and every tissue and organ of the body and thus
gives rise to hamorrhages, and hematogenous jaundice.

Produces a picture of destructive metabolism. Causes
yellow atrophy of the liver and snb-acute hepatitis.
Tall, slender persons, weakened by loss of animal fluids,
with great nervous debility, emaciation, amative ten-
dencies, seem to be under the special influence of Phos-
phorus. Great susceptibility to external impressions, to
light, sound, odors, touch, electrical changes, thunder-
storms. Suddenness of symptoms, sudden prostration,
faints, sweats, shooting pains, etc. Polycythemia.
Blood extravasations; fatty degenerations, cirrhosis,
caries, are pathological states often calling for Phos-
phorus. Muscular pseudo-hypertrophy, neuritis. In-
flammation of the respiratory tract. Paralytic symp-
toms. Ill effects of Iodine and excessive use of salt;
worse, lying on left side. Tertiary syphilis, skin lesions,
and nervous debility. Scurvy. Pseudo-hypertrophic
paralysis, Ataxia and adynamia.

ad. — Great lowness of spirits. Easily vexed. Fear-
»,fulgiiigs, as if something were creeping out of every cor-
PHOSPHORUS 583

ner. Clairvoyant state. Great tendency to start. Over-
sensitive to external impressions. Loss of memory. Pa-
ralysis of the insane. Ecstasy. Dread of death when
alone. Brain feels tired. Insanity, with an exaggerated
idea of one’s own importance. Excitable, produces heat
all over. Restless, fidgety. Hypo-sensitive — indifferent.

Head. — Vertigo of the aged, after rising. [Bry.}
fleat comes from spine. Neuralgia; parts must be
kept warn. Burning pains. Chronic congestion of
head. Brain-fag, with coldness of occiput. Vertigo,
with faintness. Skin of forehead feels too tight. Itch-
ing of scaJp, dandruff, falling out of hair in large
bunches,

Eyes. — Cataract. Sensation as if everything were
covered with a mist or veil, or dust, or something pulled
tightly over eyes. Black points seem to float before
the eyes. Patieut sees better by shading eyes with hand.
Fatigue of eyes and head even without much use
of eyes. Green halo about the candlelight, [Osmium.]
Letters appear red. Atrophy of optic nerve. CEdema
of lids and about eyes. Partial loss of vision from
abuse of tobacco. [Nw+.} Pain in orbital bones. Pare-
sis of extrinsic muscles. Diplopia, due to deviation of
the visual axis. Amaurosis from sexual excess. Glau-
coma. Thrombosis of retinal vessels and degenerative
changes in retinal cells. Degenerative changes where
soreness and curved lines are seen in old people. Retinal
trouble with lights and hallucination of vision.

Ears. — Heuring difficult, especially to human voice.
Re-echoing of sounds. [Caust.] Dullness of hearing
after typhoid,

Nose. — Fan-like motion of nostrils. [Lyc.] Bleed-
ing; epistaxis instead of menses. Over-sensitive smell.
[Carbol. ac.; Nux.}  Periostitis of nasal bones. Foul
584 PHOSPHORUS

imaginary odors. [Aur.] Chronic catarrh, with small
hemorrhages; handkerchief is always bloody. Polypi;
bleeding easily. [Calc.; Sang.]

Face. — Pale, sickly complexion; blue rings under
eyes. Hippocratic countenance. Tearing pain in facial
bones; circumscribed redness, Swelling and necrosis of
lower jaw. [Amphisbena.]

Mouth. — Swelled and easily bleeding gums, ulcer-
ated. Toothache after washing clothes. Tongue dry,
white, not thickly coated. Nursing sore mouth. Burn-
ing in cesophagus, Dryness in pharynx and fauces.
Thirst for very cold water.

Stomach. — Hunger soon after eating. Sour taste and
sour eructations after every meal. Belching large
quantities of wind, after eating. Throws up ingesta by
the mouthfuls. Vomiting; water is thrown up as soon
as it gets warm in the stomach. Post-operative vomit -
tng. Cardiac opening seems contracted, too narrow;
the food scarcely swallowed, comes up again. [Bry.,
Alum.] Pain in stomach; relieved by cold food, ices.
Region of stomach painful to touch, or on walking. In-
flammation of stomach, with burning extending to throat
and bowels. Bad effects of eating too much salt.

Abdomen.—Fecls cold. [Cups.] Sharp, cutting
pains. A very weak, empty, gone sensation felt in whole
abdominal cavity. Liver congested. Acute hepatitis.
Fatty degeneration. Jaundice. Pancreatic disease.
Large, yellow spots on abdomen.

Stool. — Very fetid stools and flatus. Long, narrow,
hard, like a dog’s. Difficult to expel. Desire fui stool
on lying on left side Poinless, copious debilitating
diarrhoea. Green mucus, with grains like sago. In-
voluntary ; seems as if anus remained open. Great weak-
ness after stool. Discharge of bluod from rectum, dur-

ing’ stool.
PHOSPHORUS 585

Urine. — Hzmaturia, especially in acute Bright’s dis-
ease. [Canth.] Turbid, brown, with red sediment.

Male. — Lack of power. Irresistible desire; involun-
tary emissions, with lascivious dreams.

Female. — Metritis. Chiorosis. Phlebitis. Fistulous
tracks after mammary abscess. Slight haemorrhage
from uterus between periods. Menses too early and
scanty —not profuse, but last too long. Weeps before
menses. Stitching pain in mammez. Leucorrhoea pro-
fuse, smarting, corrosive, instead of menses. Amenor-
rhoea, with vicarious menstruation. [Bzy.] Sppura-
tion of mamma, burning, watery, offensive discharge.
Nymphomania.

Respiratory. — Hoarseness; worse evenings. Larynx
very painful, Clergyman’s sore throat; violent tickling
in jarynx while speaking. Aphonia, worse evenings,
with rawness. Cannot talk on account of pain in larynx.
Cough from tickling in throat; worse, cold air, reading,
laughing, talking. Sweetish taste while coughing. Hard,
dry, tight, racking cough. Congestion of lungs. Burn-
ing pains, heat and oppression of chest. Tightness
across chest; great weight on chest. Sharp stitches in
chest; respiration quickened, oppressed, Much heat in
chest. Pneumonia, with oppression; worse, lying on left
side. Whole body trembles, with cough. Sputa rusty,
blood-colored, or purulent. Tuberculosis in tall, rapidly-
growing young people. - Do not give it too low or too
frequently here, it may but hasten the destructive de-
generation of tubercular masses. Repeated hemoptysis.
[Acal.] Pain in throat on coughing. Nervous coughs
provoked by strong odors, entrance of a stranger.

Heart. — Violent palpitation with anxiety, while lying
on left side. Pulse rapid, small, and soft. Heart di-
lated, especially right. Feeling of warmth in heart.
586 PHOSPHORUS

Back. — Burning in back; pain as if broken. Heat be-
tween the shoulder-blades. Weak spine.

Extremities. — Ascending sensory and motor paralysis
from ends of fingers and toes. Stitches in elbow and
shoulder joints. Burning of feet. Weakness and
trembling, from every exertion. Can scarcely hold any-
thing with his hands. Tibia inflamed and becomes ne-
crosed. Arms and hands become numb. Can lie only
on right side. Post-diphtheritic paralysis, with formi-
cation of hands and feet. Joints suddenly give way.

Sleep.— Great drowsiness, especially after meals.
Coma vigil. Sleeplessness in old people. Vivid dreams
of fire; of hemorrhage. Lascivious dreams. Goes to
sleep late and awakens weak. Short naps and frequent
wakings.

Fever. — Chilly every evening. Cold knees at night.
Adynamic with lack of thirst, but unnatural hunger.
Hectic, with small, quick pulse; viscid night-sweats.
Stupid delirium. Profuse perspiration.

Skin. — JVounds bleed very much, even if small; they
heal and break out again. Jaundice. Little ulcer out-
side of large ones. Petechie. Ecchymosis. Purpura
hemorrhagia. Scurvy.

Modalities. — }1’orsc, touch; physical or mental exer-
tion; twilight; warm food or drink; change of weather,
from getting wet in hot weather; evening; lying on
left or painful side; during a thunder-storm; ascending
stairs. Better, in dark, lying on right side, cold food;
open air; washing with cold water.

Relationship. — Complementary: Ars.; Cepa; Lye.

Sanguisuga 30—- Leech — (Persistent haemorrhages;
effects of use of leeches.) Phosph. pentachloride (great
soreness of mucous membrane of eyes and nose, throat
and chest sore).

Incompatible: Caust.
586 PHOSPHORUS

Back. — Burning in back; pain as if broken. Heat be-
tween the shoulder-blades. Weak spine.

Extremities. — Ascending sensory and motor paralysis
from ends of fingers and toes. Stitches in elbow and
shoulder joints. Burning of feet. Weakness and
trembling, from every exertion. Can scarcely hold any-
thing with his hands. Tibia inflamed and becomes ne-
crosed. Arms and hands become numb. Can lie only
on right side. Post-diphtheritic paralysis, with formi-
cation of hands and feet. Joints suddenly give way.

Sleep.— Great drowsiness, especially after meals.
Coma vigil. Sleeplessness in old people. Vivid dreams
of fire; of hemorrhage. Lascivious dreams. Goes to
sleep late and awakens weak. Short naps and frequent
wakings.

Fever. — Chilly every evening. Cold knees at night.
Adynamic with lack of thirst, but unnatural hunger.
Hectic, with small, quick pulse; viscid night-sweats.
Stupid delirium. Profuse perspiration.

Skin. — JVounds bleed very much, even if small; they
heal and break out again. Jaundice. Little ulcer out-
side of large ones. Petechie. Ecchymosis. Purpura
hemorrhagia. Scurvy.

Modalities. — }1’orsc, touch; physical or mental exer-
tion; twilight; warm food or drink; change of weather,
from getting wet in hot weather; evening; lying on
left or painful side; during a thunder-storm; ascending
stairs. Better, in dark, lying on right side, cold food;
open air; washing with cold water.

Relationship. — Complementary: Ars.; Cepa; Lye.

Sanguisuga 30—- Leech — (Persistent haemorrhages;
effects of use of leeches.) Phosph. pentachloride (great
soreness of mucous membrane of eyes and nose, throat
and chest sore).

Incompatible: Caust.
PHOSPHORUS —- PHYSALIS — SOLANUM VESICARIUM 587

Compare: Phosphorus hydrogenatus (crumbling
teeth; hyperzsthesia; locomotor ataxia); Amphisbena
(right jaw swollen and painful). Thymol (Typical
sexual neurasthenia; irritable stomach; aching through-
out lumbar region; worse, mental and physical exer-
tion): Calc.; Chin.; Antim.; Sep.; Lyc.; Sulph, In
Pneumonia, Pneumococin 200 and Pneumotoxin (Cahis)
taken from the Diplococcus lanceolatus of Fraenkel.
Pneumonia and paralytic phenomena—also Pyrogen
(Cartier).

Antidote: Nux. Phos. antidotes the nausea and vom-
iting of chloroform and ether.

Dose. -—— Third to thirtieth potency. Should not be
given too low or in too continuous doses.

PHYSALIS--- SOLANUM VESICARIUM
(Alkekengi — Winter Cherry)

Marked urinary symptoms confirming its ancient uses
in gravel, etc. Languor and muscular weakness.

Head. — Vertigo, hazy feeling; memory weakened ;
desire to talk constantly. Throbbing pain, heavy over
eyes in forehead. Facial paralysis. Dryness of mouth.

Extremities. — Stiff limbs; tonic cramps. Paralysis.
When walking, every jar seems repeated in the head.

Fever. — Chilly in open air. Feverish in evening.
Sweat during stool, with creeping sensation, with abund-
ant urine, Pain in liver during fever.

Respiratory. — Cough. Hoarse voice; throat irritated ;
chest oppressed, causing insomnia. Stabbing in chest.

Urinary. — Acrid, foul, retained, abundant. Polyuria.
Sudden inability to hold it in women. Nocturnal in-
continence. Enuresis,

Skin. — Excoriation between fingers and toes; pust-
ules on thighs; nodes on forehead.
588 PHYSALIS — PHYSOSTIGMA

Modalities. — Worse, cold damp evening. After being
heated.

Dose. — Tincture to third attenuation. The juice of
the berries is used in dropsical conditions and’ irritable
bladder.

PHYSOSTIGMA
(Calabar Bean)

This remedy and its active principle, Eserine, form
a valuable addition to Materia Medica. Stimulates heart,
raises blood pressure, and increases peristalsis. Causes
contraction of the pupil and of the ciliary muscles. In-
duces a condition of short-sightedness. Spinal irritation,
loss of motility, prostration, with very sensitive verte-
bre. Fibrillary tremors. Rigidity of muscles; paralysis.
Depresses the motor and reflex activity of the cord and
causes loss of sensibility to pain, muscular weakness,
followed by complete paralysis, although muscular con-
tractility is not impaired. Paralysis and tremors, chorea.
Meningeal irritation, with rigidity of muscles. Tetanus
and trismus. Eserine is used locally to produce con-
traction of pupil,

Head.— Constant pain on top; vertigo, with con-
strictive feeling of head. Pain over orbits; cannot bear
to ratse eyclids. Cerebro-spinal meningitis; general
tetanic rigidity. Spastic conditions of the face-muscles.

Eyes. --- Night-blindness [Opposite: Bothrops] ; photo-
phobia; contraction of pupils; twitching of ocular mus-
cles. Lagophthalmus. Musca volitantes; flashes of
light; partial blindness. Glaucoma; paresis of accom-
modation; astigmatism. Profuse fachrymation. Spasm
of ciliary muscle, with irritability after using eyes. In-
creasing myopia. Post-diphtheritic paralysis of eye aad
accommodation muscles,

, Nose. — Fluent coryza; burning and tingling of nos-
PHYSOSTIGMA 589

trils; nose stuffed and hot. Fever-blisters around nos-
trils.

Mouth. — Tongue feels sore on tip. Feeling as if a
ball came up throat.

Throat. — Strong heart-pulsation felt in throat.

Stomach. — Great pain immediately after eating. Sen-
sitive to pressure in epigastric region. Pain extends
into chest and down arms. Gastralgia; chronic consti-
pation.

Female. —- Irregular menstruation, with palpitation.
Congestion of eyes. Rigid muscles.

Heart. — Feeble pulse; palpitation; spasmodic action,
with feeling of pulsation through the whole body. Beats
of heart distinctly perceptible in chest and head. Flut-
tering of heart felt in throat. Fatty degeneration.
[Cus. ac.J

Extremities. — Pain in right popliteal space. Burning
and tingling in spine. Hands and feet numb. Sudden
jerking of limbs on going to sleep. Tetanic convulsions.
Locomotor ataxia. Numbness in paralyzed parts,
crampy pains in limbs,

Relationship. — Compare: Escrine —the alkaloid of
Physostigma — (slows action of heart and increases
arterial ténsion: in ciliary spasm and astigmatism due
to irregular action of ciliary muscles; blepharo-spasms;
pupils contracted. Twitching of lids, soreness of eye-
balls, blurring of vision after using eyes, pains around
eyes and head). Used locally to contract the pupil.
Eserine contracts the pupils dilated by Atropin, but not
those dilated by Gelsemium.

Eserin Salicylate (post-operative intestinal paralysis;
meteorism. Hypodermically 1/60-1/40 gr.).

Compare also: Muscarin; Conium; Curara; Gels.;
Thebainum (tetanus). In glaucoma comp.; Pipera-
sinum — (Uric acid conditions. Gout and urinary cal-
590 PHYSOSTIGMA —= PHYTOLACCA

culi. Give one grain daily in carbonated water. First
and second decimal trituration three times a day.)

Antidote: Atropia.

Dose.— Third potency. The neutral sulphate of
Eserine is instilled into the eye, from one-half to four
grains to one ounce distilled water, to induce contrac-
tion of pupil, in mydriasis, injuries to the eye, iritis,
corneal ulcers, etc.

PHYTOLACCA
(Poke-root)

Aching, soreness, restlessness, prostration, are gen-
eral symptoms guiding to Phytolacca. Pre-eminently
a glandular remedy. Glandular swellings with heat and
inflammation. Has a powerful effect on fibrous and
osseous tissues; fascit: and muscle sheaths; acts on scar
tissue. Syphilitic bone pains; chronic rheumatism.
Sore throat, quinsy, and diphtheria. Tetanus and
opisthotonos. Decrease of weight. Retarded dentition.

Mind. -—— Loss of personal delicacy, disregard of sur-
rounding objects. Indifferent to life.

Head. — Vertigo on rising. Brain feels sore. Pain
from frontal region backward. Pressure in tefnples and
over eyes. Rheumatism of scalp; pains come on every
time it rains. Scaly eruption on scalp.

Eyes. — Smarting. Feeling of sand under lids. Tar-
sal edges feel hot. Fistula lachrymalis. [Flwor. ac.]
Abundant lachrymation, hot.

Nose. — Coryza; flow of mucus from one nostril und
from posterior nares.

Mouth. — l'eething children with irresistible desire to
bite the teeth together, Teeth clenched; lower lip drawn
dowdi; lips everted; jaws firmly set; chin drawn down
on’ sternum. Tongue feels rough and scalded; blisters
PH\TOLACCA 591

on side. Mapped, indented, fissured, with yellow patch
down center. Much stringy saliva.

Throat. — Dark red or bluish red. Much pain at root
of tongue; soft palate and tonsils swollen. Sensation
of a lump in throat. [Bell.; Lach.] Throat feels
rough, narrow, hot. Tonsils swollen, especially right;
dark-red appearance. Shooting pain into ears on swal-
lowing. Pseudo-membranous exudation, grayish white;
thick, tenacious yellowish mucus, difficult to dislodge.
Cannot swallow anything hot. {Lach.] Tension and
pressure in parotid gland. Ulcerated sci1e throat and
diphtheria; throat feels very hot; pain at root of tungue
extending to ear. Uvula large, dropsical. Quinsy; ton-
sils and sauces swollen, with burning pain; cannot swal-
low even water. Mumps. Follicular pharynyitis.

Abdomen.— Sore spot in right hypochondrium.
Rheumatism of abdominal muscles. Colic at navel.
Burning griping pains. Bruised feeling through epi-
gastrium and abdomen. Constipation of the aged and
those with weak heart. Bleeding from rectum.

Urine. — Scanty, suppressed, with pain in kidney re-
gion, Nephritis.

Female. — Mastitis; mamma hard and very sensitive.
Cancer of breast. Breast is hard, painful and of pur-
ple hue. Mammary abscess. When child nurses, pain
goes from nipple all over body, Cracks and small ul-
cers about nipples. Irritable breasts, before and during
menses. Galactorrhceea. [Calc.] Menses too copious
and irequent. Ovarian neuralgia of right side.

Male. — Painful induration of testicles. Shooting
along perineum to penis.

Heart. — Feeling as if heart leaped into throat. [Pod.]
Shock of pain in cardiac region alternating with pain
in right arm.
592 PHYTOLACCA

Respiratory.— Aphonia. Difficult breathing; dry
hacking, tickling cough; worse at night. [Mentha;
Bellad.) Aching pains in chest, through mid-sternum;
with cough. Rheumatism of lower intercostals.

Back. — Aching pains in lumbar region; pains streak-
ing up and down spine into sacrum. Weakness and dull
pain in region of kidneys. Back stiff, especially in
morning on rising and during damp weather.

Extremities. — Shooting pain in right shoulder, with
stiffness and inability to raise arm. (see Heart.) Rheu-
matic pains; worse in morning. Pains fly like electric
shocks, shooting, lancinating, shifting rapidly. [Puls.;
Kali bich.} Pain in under side of thighs. Syphilitic
sciatica, Aching of heels; relieved by elevating feet.
Pains like shocks. Pain in legs, patient dreads to get
up. Feet puffed; pain in ankles and feet. Neuralgia in
toes, .

Fever. — High fever, alternating with chilliness and
great prostration.

Skin. — Itches, becomes dry, shrunken, pale. Papular
and pustular lesions. Most useful in early stages of
cutaneous diseases. Disposition to boils, and when
sloughing occurs. Squamous eruptions. Svphilitic
eruptions. Swelling and induration of glands. Venereal
buboes. Scarlatina-like rash.

Modalities. — Worse, sensitive to electric changes. Ef-
fects of a wetting, when it rains, exposure to damp, cold
weather, night, exposure, motion, right side. Better,
warmth, dry weather, rest.

Relationship.— Compare: Tincture of Phytolacca
Berry (sore throats and in the treatment of obesity) ;
Franctscea (syphilis and rheumatism, much aching, great
heat over body; better, sweat. Pain in back of head
and spine. Band-like feeling around head); Bry.;
Rhus; Kali hyd.; Merc.; Sang.; Arum triph.
PHYTOLACCA — PICHI — PICRICUM ACIDUM 593

Antidotes: Milk and salt; Bellad.; Mezer. .
Dose. — Tincture, to third potency. Externally for
mastitis,

PICHI
(Fabiana Imbricata)

This remedy is useful in the uric acid diathesis, cys-
titis, gonorrheea, prostatitis, especially dysuria; vesical
catarrh and urinary difficulties, post-gonorrhceal, cho-
lethiasis and liver affections.

Urine. — Painful, much mucus and pus. Vesical tenes-
mus and burning after urinating. Excoriating urine
and urinary calculi. Relieves concentric hypertrophy
of bladder.

Relationship.—- Compare: Chimaph.; Merc. cor.;
Canth.; Cann. s.

Dose. — Mother lincture, — ten- to twenty-drop doses.

PICRICUM ACIDUM
(Picric Acid)

Causes degeneration of the spinal cord, with paraly-
sis. Brain-fag and sexual excitement. Neurasthenia.
{[Oxal. ac.] Muscular debility. Writer’s palsy. Pro-
gressive, pernicious anemia. Uremic with complete
anuria. In a one per cent. solution applied on lint, is
the best application for burns until granulations begin
to form.

Mind. — Lack of will-power; disinclined to work.'

Head. — Head pains; relieved by bandaging tightly.
Occipital pain; worse, slightest mental exertion. Ver-
tigo and noises in ear. Boils within ears and back of
neck. After prolonged mental strain, with anxiety and
dread of failure at examination.

Stomach. — Bitter taste. Aversion to food.
594 PICRICUM ACIDUM — PILOCARPUS MICROPHYLLUS

Urinary. — Scanty; complete anuria. Dribbling mic-
turition. Urine contains much indican, granular cylin-
ders and fatty degenerated epithelium. Inflammation of
kidneys with profound weakness, dark, bloody, scanty
urine. Nightly urging.

Male. — Emissions profuse, followed by great exhaus-
tion, without sensual dreams, Priapism,; satyriasis.
Hard erections, with pain in testicles and up cord.
Prostatic hypertrophy, especially in cases not too far

\ advanced.

Female. — Pain in left ovary and leucorrhcea before
menstruation. Pruritus vulve.

Extremities. — Burning along spine. Great weakness.
Tired, heavy feeling all over body, especially limbs;
worse, exertion. Feet cold.

Modalities. — [Vorse, least exertion, especially mental,
after sleep, wet weather. 2etter, from cald air, cold
water, tight pressure.

Relationship. — Compare: Oral. ac., Gels.; Phos.;
Siu.; Arg. nit. Compare: Zinc. pic. (facial palsy and
paralysis agitans):; Ferr. pic. (buzzing in ears, deaf-
ness; chronic gout; epistaxis; prostatic troubles) ; Calc.
pic. (boils in and around ears).

Dose. — Sixth potency.

PILOCARPUS MICROPHYLLUS
(Jaborandi)

Pilocarpus is a powerful glandular stimulant and the
most efficient diaphoretic. Its most important effects
are diaphoresis, salivation and myosis. Hot flushes,
nausea, salivation and protuse perspiration.

Is homeopathic to abnormal sweats, and has achieved
great success in siyht-sweats of consumptives. Acts
PILOCARPUS MICROPHYLLUS 595

upon the thyroid and its sudorific action may possibly
be due to it. LExophthalmic goitre, with increased
heart’s action and pulsation of arteries; tremors and
nervousness; heat and sweating; bronchial irritation.
A valuable remedy in limiting the duration of mumps.

Eyes. — Eyestrain from whatever cause. Irritability
of the ciliary muscle. Eyes easily tire from slightest
use. Heat and burning in eyes on use. Headache;
smarting and pain in globe on use. Everything at a
distance appears hazy; vision becomes indistinct every
few moments. Retinal images retained long after using
eyes. Irritation from electric or other artificial light.
Pupils contracted; do not react to light. Staring eyes.
Near-sighted. Vertigo and nausea after using eyes.
White spots before eyes. Smarting pain in eyes. Lids
twitch. Atrophic choroiditis. Spasm of the accom-
modation while reading.

Ears. — Serous exudation into the tympanitic cavities.
Tinnitus. [Pilocarpin 2x.]

Mouth. — Saliva viscid, like white of egg. Dryness.
Free salivation, with profuse sweating.

Stomach. — Nausea on looking at objects moving;
vomiting; pressure and pain in stomach,

Abdomen. — Diarrhoea, painless; during day with
flushed face and profuse sweat.

Urinary. — Scanty ; pain over pubes with much urging.

Heart.— Pulse irregular, dicrotic. Oppression of
chest. Cyanosis; collapse. Nervous cardiac affections,

Respiratory. — Bronchial niucous membrane inflamed.
Much inclination to cough and difficult breathing.
(Edema of lungs. Foamy sputa. Profuse, thin, serous
expectoration. Slow, sighing respiration.

Skin. — Excessive perspiration from all parts. of the
§96 PILOCARPUS MICROPHYLLUS — PINUS SYLVESTRIS

body. Persistent dryness of skin. Dry eczema. Semi-
lateral sweats. [Nux.]

Relationship. — Compare: Amyl. nit.; Atrop.; Phy-
sos.; Lycops; Ruta. Pilocarpin mur. (rapidly progres-
sive phthisis, with free hemorrhages, profuse sweating,
2x trit.).

Dose. — Third potency.

Non-Homeopathic Uses.— Chiefly as a powerful
and rapid diaphoretic. It is of most service in renal dis-
ease, especially with urzmia, eliminating both water,
and urea. Scarlatinal dropsy. Contra-indicated im
heart failure, and in post-puerperal uremia, and in
senile cases.

Dose. — One-eighth to one-fourth grain hypodermic-
ally. Atropin is the antagonist to Pilocarpin, in dose
of one one-hundredth grain for one-sixth of Pilocarpin.

PINUS SYLVESTRIS
(Scotch Pine)

Has been found of real use in the treatment of weak
ankles and tardiness in walking, in scrofulous and
rachitic children. Emaciation of lower extremities.
Pinus sylvestris combines rheumatic, bronchial and
urticarious symptoms; the chest seems thin and to give
way.

Extremities. — Stiffness; gouty pain in all joints, espe-
cially finger-joints. Cramps in calves.

Skin. — Nettle-rash. Itching all over, especially about

joints and on abdomen. Nose itches,
' Relationship. — Compare: Pinus Lambertina — Sugar
Pine — (constipation, amenorrhoea, abortion). Pinus
Lamberlina sap is a decided carthartic. Delayed and
painful menstruation.

Also, Abics can.; Abies nig.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.
§96 PILOCARPUS MICROPHYLLUS — PINUS SYLVESTRIS

body. Persistent dryness of skin. Dry eczema. Semi-
lateral sweats. [Nux.]

Relationship. — Compare: Amyl. nit.; Atrop.; Phy-
sos.; Lycops; Ruta. Pilocarpin mur. (rapidly progres-
sive phthisis, with free hemorrhages, profuse sweating,
2x trit.).

Dose. — Third potency.

Non-Homeopathic Uses.— Chiefly as a powerful
and rapid diaphoretic. It is of most service in renal dis-
ease, especially with urzmia, eliminating both water,
and urea. Scarlatinal dropsy. Contra-indicated im
heart failure, and in post-puerperal uremia, and in
senile cases.

Dose. — One-eighth to one-fourth grain hypodermic-
ally. Atropin is the antagonist to Pilocarpin, in dose
of one one-hundredth grain for one-sixth of Pilocarpin.

PINUS SYLVESTRIS
(Scotch Pine)

Has been found of real use in the treatment of weak
ankles and tardiness in walking, in scrofulous and
rachitic children. Emaciation of lower extremities.
Pinus sylvestris combines rheumatic, bronchial and
urticarious symptoms; the chest seems thin and to give
way.

Extremities. — Stiffness; gouty pain in all joints, espe-
cially finger-joints. Cramps in calves.

Skin. — Nettle-rash. Itching all over, especially about

joints and on abdomen. Nose itches,
' Relationship. — Compare: Pinus Lambertina — Sugar
Pine — (constipation, amenorrhoea, abortion). Pinus
Lamberlina sap is a decided carthartic. Delayed and
painful menstruation.

Also, Abics can.; Abies nig.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.
PIPER METH. —— PITUITARY GLAND 597

PIPER METHYSTICUM
(Kava-kava)

Urinary and skin symptoms have been verified.
Marked modality. Arthritis deformans.

Mind. — Very sensitive. Exaltation of mind. Ameli-
oration of pains for a time by diverting attention. Rest-
less desire to change position.

Urine. -— Increased. Burning during micturition, gon-
orrhea and gleet. Cystitis. Chordee.

Skin. — Scaly. Fall of scales leaves white spots, which
often ulcerate. Leprosy. [Chaulmugra.]

Extremities. — Pain in right arm. Hands feel pa-
ralyzed. Pain in thumb-joint.

Relationship.—- Compare: Piper nigrum (burning
sensation and pressure; great flow of milk; dysuria,
Palpitation, cardiac pain, also slow intermittent pulse.
Mental depression in afternoon. Full feeling at meal-
time better by eating.

Modalities. — Better, by turning mind to another
topic; changing position.

Dose. — Tincture, and lower potencies.

PITUITARY GLAND

Pituitary exercises a superior control over the growth
and development of the sexual organs, stimulates mus-
cular activity and overcomes uterine inertia. Its in-
fluence over unstriped muscular fibre is marked.
Tethalin, the growth controlling substance from the
anterior lobe has been found efficacious in the treat-
ment of chronic ulcers. Cerebral hemorrhage. Uterine
inertia in second stage of labor where os is fully dilated.
High blood pressure, chronic nephritis, prostatitis. Ten
drops after meals. (Dr. Geo. Fuller.) Vertigo, diffi-
cult mental concentration, confusion and fullness deep
in frontal region. Use 30th potency.
598 PIX LIQUIDA — PLANTAGO MAJOR

PIX LIQUIDA
(Pine-tar)

Tar and its constituents act on various mucous mem-
branes.

Its skin symptoms most important. A great cough
medicine. Bronchial irritation after influenza. [Kreo-
sot.; Kali bich.] Scaly eruptions. Much itching. Con-
stant vomiting of blackish fluid, with pain in stomach.
Alopecia. [Fluor. ac.]

Chest. — Pain at a spot about the third left costal car-
tilage where it joins the rib. Rales through the lungs,
and muco-purulent sputum; offensive odor and taste.
Chronic bronchitis.

Skin. — Cracked ; tiches intolcrably; bleeds on scratch-
ing. Eruptions on back of hands.

Relationship. — Compare its constituents: Kreosot.;
Petrol.; Pinus; Eupion; Terebinth.

Dose. -— First to sixth potency.

PLANTAGO MAJOR
(Plantain)

Has considerable clinical reputation in the treatment
of earache, toothache, and enuresis. Sharp pain in
eyes, reflex from decayed teeth or inflammation of mid-
dle ear. Eyeball very tender to touch. Pain plays
between teeth and ears. Pyorrhoea alveolaris. [Staph-
tsag.)_ Depression and insomnia of chronic Nicotinism.
Causes an aversion to tobacco.

Ears. — Hearing acute; noise painful. Sticking pain
in ears. Neuralgic earache; pain goes from one ear to
the other through the head. Otalgia, with toothache.
Loud noises go through one.
PLANTAGO MAJ.—PLATANUS OCCI.—PLATINA 599

Nose. — Sudden, yellowish, watery discharge.

Mouth. — Teeth ache and are sensitive and sore to
touch. Swelling of cheeks. Salivation; teeth feel too
long; worse, cold air and contact. Toothache, better
while eating. Profuse flow of saliva. Toothache, with
reflex neuralgia of eyelids.

Stool. — Wants to defecate; goes often, but cannot.
Piles so bad, can hardly stand Diarrhoea, with brown
watery stools.

Urine. —- Profuse flow; nocturnal enuresis. [Rhus
arom.; Caust.]

Skin. —- Itching and burning; papulz. Urticaria, chil-
blains. [Agar.; Tamus.] Poison-oak.

Relationship. — Comparé: Aalm.; Cham.; Puls.

Dose. — Tincture, and lower potencies. Local use in
tonthache in hollow teeth, otorrhea, pruritus, and Poi-
son-oak. Incised wounds.

PLATANUS OCCIDENTALIS
(Sycamore-Buttonwood)

Tarsal tumors. Apply the tincture. Both acute and
old neglected cases, where destruction of tissue occurred
and cicatricial contraction caused marked deformity of
lid, restored to practically normal conditions. Acts best
in children. Must be used*for some time.

PLATINA
(The Metal)

Is pre-eminently a woman’s remedy. Strong tendency
to paralysis, anzsthesia, localized numbness and cold-
ness are shown. Hysterical spasms; pains increase and
decrease gradually. [Stannum.] Tremulousness.
600 PLATINA

Mind. — Irresistible impulse to kill. Self-exaltation;
contempt for others. Arrogant, proud. Weary of every-
thing. Everything seems changed. Mental troubles, as-
sociated with suppressed menses. Physical symptoms
disappear as mental symptoms develop.

Head.— Tense, pressing pain, confined to a small
spot. Cramp-like, squeesing pain. Constriction about
forehead and right temples. Numbness, with headache.

Eyes. — Objects look smailer than they are. Twitch-
ing of lids. [Agar.] Eyes feel cold. Cramp-like pain
in orbits.

Ears.— Feels numb. Cramp-like twinges. Roaring
and rumbling.

Face. — Prosopalgia, with’ numb feeling in malar
bones, as if the parts were between screws. Pain at
root of nose, as if squeezed in a vise. Coldness, creep-
ing, and numbness, 11 whole tight side of face. Pains
increase and decrease gradually. [Stann.]

Stomach. — Fermentation, much flatulence; constric-
Hon; ravenous hunger; persistent nausea, with anxiety
and weakness.

Abdomen. — Painter’s colic. Pain in umbilical region ;
extending through to back. Pressing and bearing down
in abdomen, extending into pelvis.

Stool. — Retarded; faces scanty; evacuated with dif-
ficulty. Adheres to rectum, like soft clay. Sticky stool.
Constipation of travelers, who are constantly changing
food and water. Stool as if burnt.

Female. — Parts hypersensitive. Tingling internally
and externally. [Kali brom.; Orig.] Ovaries sensitive
and burn. Menses too early, tno profuse, dark-clotted,
with spasms and painful bearing-down, chilliness, and
sénsitiveness of parts. Nymphomania. Excessive sex-
PLATINA — PLUMBUM IODATUM 601

ual development; vaginismus. Pruritus vulve. Ovar-
itis with sterility. Abnormal sexual appetite and melan-
cholia.

Extremities. — Tightness of thighs, as if too tightly
wrapped. Numb and weary sensation. Feel paralyzed.

Sleep. — Sleeps with legs far apart. [Chamom.]

Modalities. — Worse, sitting and standing; evening.
Better, walking,

Relationship. — Compare: Rhodium; Stann.; Valer.;
Sep. Comparey also: Platinum muriaticum (this rem-
edy has achieved beneficial results after Iodide uf Pot-
ash failed to cure in syphilitic affection; violent occi-
pital headaches, dysphagia, and syphilitic throat and
bone affections) ; Plat. mur. nat. (polyuria and saliva-
tion}; Sedum acre (sexual irritability, relieves irrita-
tion of nerve centers and gives rest).

Antidote: Puls. Platina antidotes the bad effects of
lead.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency,

PLUMBUM IODATUM
(Iodide of Lead)

Has been used empirically in various forms of paraly-
sis, sclerotic degenerations, especially of spinal cord,
atrophies, arterio-sclerosis, pellagra. Indurations of
mammary glands, especially when a tendency to become
inflamed appears; sore and painful, Indurations of
great hardness and associated with a very dry skin.

Relationship. — Compare: Arg. nit. (painful mam-
mary glands, with tendency to ulcerate, bleeding and
proud flesh). Compare, also: Merc. iod. flav.; Asterias;
Conium; Phytol.; Carb. an.; Sitlic.

Dose. — Third trituration.
602 PLUMBUM METALLICUM

PLUMBUM METALLICUM
(Lead)

The great drug for general sclerotic conditions;
hardening of tissues from sclerotic processes. The
blood, alimentary and nervous systems are the special
seats of action of Plumbum. Hematosis is interfered
with, rapid reduction in number of red corpuscles; hence
pallor, icterus, anemia.

Delirium, coma and convulsions. Hypertension and
arterio-sclerosis. Trembling, or followed by paralysis.
Progressive muscular atrophy. Infantile paralysis. Lo-
comotor ataxia. Excessive and rapid emaciation. Bul-
bar paralysis. Important in peripheral affections. The
points of attack for Plumbum are the neuraxons and
the anterior horns. Produces granular degeneration of
red blood corpuscles. Symptoms of multiple sclerosis,
posterior spinal sclerosis. Contractions and boring
pain.

Mind. — Fear of being assassinated. Quiet melan-
choly. Slow perception; loss of memory; amnesic apha-
sia. Hallucinations and delusions. Intellectual apathy.
Memory impaired. [Anuc.; Baryta.] Paretic dementia.

Head. —- Delirium alterating with colic. Pain as if
a ball rose from throat to brain. Hair very dry. Tin-
nitus. [Chin.; Nat. salic.; Carbon. sulph.]

Eyes. — Pupils contracted. Yellow. Optic nerve in-
flamed. Intraocular, suppurative inflammation Glau-
coma, especially if secondary to spinal lesion.

Face.—- Pale and cachectic. Yellow, corpse-like;
cheeks sunken, Skin of face greasy, shiny. |Nat. mur.;
Sanic.)

_Mouth.— Gums swollen, pale; distinct blue lines
PLUMBUM METALLICUM 603

along margins of gums. Tongue tremulous, red on
margin.

Stomach. — Contraction in asophagus and stomach;
pressure and tightness. Gastralgia.

Abdomen. — Excessive colic, radiating to all parts of
body. Abdominal wall feels drawn by a string to spine.
Pain causes desire to stretch. Intussusception ; strangu- :
lated hernia. Abdomen retracted. Obstructed flatus.
with intense colic. Colic alternates with delirium and
pain in atrophied limbs.

Rectum. — Constipation; stools hard, Jumpy, bluck,~
with urging and spasm of anus. Obstructed evacuation
from impaction of feces. [Plat.] Neuralgia of rec-
tum. .iuus drawn up with constriction.

Urinary. — Frequent, ineffectual tenesmus. Albumi-
nous; low specific gravity. Chronic interstitial nephritis,
with great pain in abdomen. Urine scanty.

Male. — Loss of sexual power. Testicles drawn up,
feel constricted.

Female. —Vuginismus. Induration of mammary
glands. [Plumb. iod.] Stitches and burning pains in
breasts. .[Apis; Con.; Carb. an.; Sil.j Tendency to
abortion.

Heart. — Cardiac weakness. Pulse soft and small,
dichrotic. Wiry pulse, cramp-like constriction of peri-
pheral arteries. .

Back. — Spinal cord sclerosed. Lightning-like pains,
especially in thighs; temporarily better by pressure.
Paralysis of lower extremities.

Skin. — Yellow, dark-brown liver spots. Jaundice,
Dry. Dilated veins of forearms and legs.

Extremities. — Paralysis of single muscles. Cannot
raise or lift anything with the hand. Extension is dif-
604 PLUMBUM METALLICUM — PODOPHYLLUM

ficult. Paralysis from overexertion of the extensor
muscles in piano players. [Curarec.] Pains in muscles
of thighs; come in paroxysms, Wrist-drop. Cramps
in calves. Paralysis. Feet swollen. Pain'in atrophied
limbs alternates with colic. Loss of patellar reflex.
Hands and feet cold. Pain in right big toe at night,
very sensitive to touch.

Modalities. — Worse, at night, motion. Better, rub-
bing, hard pressure, physical exertion. [Alumen.]

Relationship.— Compare: Plumb. acet. (painful
cramps in paralyzed limbs; severe pain and muscular
cramps in gastric ulcer; locally, as an application (non-
homeeopathic) in moist eczema, and to dry up secre-
tions from mucous surfaces. Care must be used, as
sufficient lead can be absorbed to produce lead poison,
one to two drams of the liquor plumbi subacetatis to the
ounce of water: also in pruritus pudendi, equal parts
of the liquor plumbi and glycerin). Compare: Alumina;
Plai.; Opium; Podoph.; Merc.; Thall. Plectranthus
(paralysis, ‘spastic, spinal form); Plumb. chromicum
(convulsions, with terrible pains; pupils greatly dilated ;
retracted abdomen); Plumb. phosph. (loss of sexual
power; locomotor ctaxia).

Antidotes: Plat.; Alum.; Petrol.
Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

PODOPHYLLUM
(May-apple)

Is especially adapted to peisons of bilious tempera-
ment. It affects chiefly the duodenum, small intestines,
liver, and rectum. Many troubles during pregnancy;
pendulous abdomen after confinement; prolapsus uteri;
painless cholera morbus. Torpidity of the liver; porte!
PODOPHYLLUM 605

engorgement with a tendency to hemorrhoids, hypo-
gastric pain, fullness of superficial veins, jaundice.

Mind. — Loquacity and delirium from eating acid
fruits. Depression of spirits.

Head. — Vertigo, with tendency to fall forward.
Headache, dull pressure, worse morning, with heated
face and bitter taste; alternating with diarrhea. Roll-
ing of hcad from side to side, with moaning and vomit-
ing and eyelids half closed. Child perspires on head
during sleep.

Mouth. — Grinding the teeth at night; intense desire
to press the gums together. [Phytol.] Difficult den-
tition. Tongue broad, large, moist. Foul, putrid taste.
Burning sensation of tongue.

Stomach. — Hoi, sour belching; nausea and vomit-
ing. Thirst for large quantities of cold water, [Bry.]
Vomiting of hot, frothy mucus. Heartburn; gagging
or empty retching. Vomiting of milk.

Abdomen. — Distended; heat and emptiness. Sensa-
tion of weakness or sinking, Can lie comfortably only
on stomach. Liver region painful, better rubbing part.
Rumbling and shifting of flatus in ascending colon.

Rectum. — Cholera infantum and morbus. _Diar-
rheea of long standing; carly in morning; during teeth-
ing, with hot, glowing cheeks while being bathed or
washed; in hot weather after acid fruits. Morning,
painless diarrhea when not due to venous stasis or intes-
tinal ulceration. Green, watery, fetid, profuse, gushing.
Prolapse of rectum before or with stool. Constipation;
clay-colored, hard, dry, difficult. Constipation alternating
with diarrhcea [Ant. erud.] Internal and external
piles.

Female. — Pain in uterus and right ovary, with shift-
ing gases along ascending colon. Suppressed menses,
606 PODOPHYLLUM — POLYGONUM PUNCTATUM

with pelvic tenesmus. Prolapsed uteri, especially after
parturition. Hemorrhoids, with prolapsus ani during
pregnancy. Prolapsus from overlifting or straining;
during pregnancy. Frequent urination at night.

Extremities. — Pain between shoulders, under right
scapula, in loins and lumbar region. Pain in right in-
guinal region; shoots down inner thigh to knee. Paraly-
tic weakness on left side.

Fever. — Chill at 7 a.M., with pain in hypochondria,
and knees, ankles, wrists. Great loquacity during fever.
Profuse sweat.

Modalities. — Worse, in early morning, in hot
weather, during dentition.

Relationship. — Compare: Aloc; Chelid.; Merc.;
Nux; Sulph.

Dose. — Tincture to sixth potency. The 200th and

1000th seem to do good work in chulera infantum, when
indicated.

POLYGONUM PUNCTATUM (hydropiper)
(Smartweed)

Amenorrheea in young girls. Rectal pockets. Burn-
ing in stomach followed by feeling of coldness in the
pit of the stomach. Alternate chills and heat. Vari-
cosis.

Abdomen. —Griping pain, with great rumbling,
nausea, and liquid feces. Flatulent colic.

Rectum. — Interior of anus studded with itching
eminence. Hamorrhotds. Liquid feces.

fvUrinary. — Painful constriction at neck of bladder,

ating a long time.

}#2Memale. — Aching pains in hips and loins. Sensation
606 PODOPHYLLUM — POLYGONUM PUNCTATUM

with pelvic tenesmus. Prolapsed uteri, especially after
parturition. Hemorrhoids, with prolapsus ani during
pregnancy. Prolapsus from overlifting or straining;
during pregnancy. Frequent urination at night.

Extremities. — Pain between shoulders, under right
scapula, in loins and lumbar region. Pain in right in-
guinal region; shoots down inner thigh to knee. Paraly-
tic weakness on left side.

Fever. — Chill at 7 a.M., with pain in hypochondria,
and knees, ankles, wrists. Great loquacity during fever.
Profuse sweat.

Modalities. — Worse, in early morning, in hot
weather, during dentition.

Relationship. — Compare: Aloc; Chelid.; Merc.;
Nux; Sulph.

Dose. — Tincture to sixth potency. The 200th and

1000th seem to do good work in chulera infantum, when
indicated.

POLYGONUM PUNCTATUM (hydropiper)
(Smartweed)

Amenorrheea in young girls. Rectal pockets. Burn-
ing in stomach followed by feeling of coldness in the
pit of the stomach. Alternate chills and heat. Vari-
cosis.

Abdomen. —Griping pain, with great rumbling,
nausea, and liquid feces. Flatulent colic.

Rectum. — Interior of anus studded with itching
eminence. Hamorrhotds. Liquid feces.

fvUrinary. — Painful constriction at neck of bladder,

ating a long time.

}#2Memale. — Aching pains in hips and loins. Sensation
° POLYGONUM PUNC.—POLYPORUS PIN.—POP, CAN. 607

as tf hips were being drawn together. Sensation of
weight and tension within pelvis, Shooting pains through
breasts. Amenorrhea.

Skin. — Superficial ulecrs and sores on lower ex-
tremities, especially in females at climacteric.

Relationship.— Compare: Carduus mar. (ulcers) ;
Hamam.; Puls.; Senecio; Polygonum persicaria (renal
colic and calculi; yangrene); Polygonum aviculare —
knot-grass — (in material doses of tincture, found use-
ful in phthisis pulmonalis and intermittent fever, and
especially in arteriosclerosis. Erythema).

Dose. -— Tincture.

POLYPORUS PINICOLA
(Pine Agaric)

Useful in intermittent, remictent and bilious fevers.
with headache, yellow tongue, constant nausea, faint-
ness at episgastrium, and constipation. Similar to its
hotanicai relative, Polyp. officinalis, or Boletus laricis,
q. Uv.

Fever. — Great lassitude, congestion of head, with
vertigo, face hot and fiushed, prickling sensation all
over; restless at night from pain in wrists and knee;
rheumatic pains; profuse perspiration, Headache about
10 a.M., with pain in back, ankles and legs increasing
until 3 p.m., then gradually better.

POPULUS CANDICANS
(Balm of Gilead)

Seems to have a remarkable power over acute colds,
especially when accompanied by a deep, hoarse voice, or
even aphonia. General insensibility of surface (worse,
back and abdomen) ; rubbing and pounding borne with-
608 POPULUS CANDICANS — POPULUS TREMULOIDES

out pain, and is grateful on account of warmth pro-
duced. Finger-ends thickened, horny; insensible to
pinching and pricking. Instantaneous voice-producer.
[Coca.]

Head. — Discusses her symptoms with every one.
Hot head with cold extremities. Cold-sores on lips.
[Nat. mur.] Tongue feels thick and numb. Burning
irritation of eyes, nose, mouth, throat, and air passages.

Respiratory. — Acute hoarsencss. Throat and nos-
trils burn. Sits bent forward with dry cough. Pharynx
and larynx feel dry, and the voice weak and toneless.
Rawness and soreness of chest and throat. Cough of
children caused by naso-pharyngeal catarrh; mucus drops
from posterior nares.

Dose. — Tincture.

POPULUS TREMULOIDES
(American Aspen)

The gastric and urinary symptoms point to its use-
fulness in dyspepsia and catarrh of the bladder, espe-
cially in old people. Good remedy in vesical troubles
after operations and in pregnancy. Cystitis. Fullness
of head, and sensation of heat of the surfaces of the
body. Night-sweats. Ague.

Stomach. — Indigestion, with flatulence and acidity.
Nausea and vomiting.

Urine. — Severe tenesmus; painful scalding. Urine
contains mucus and pus. Prostate enlarged. Pain be-
hind pubis, at end ot urination,

Relationship. — Compare: Nux; China; Cornus flor.;

i Cantharis,
"Pose. — Tincture or Populin trit. 1x.
POTHOS FETIDUS — PRIMULA VERIS 609

POTHOS FOETIDUS
(Skunk-cabbage — Ictodes)

For asthmatic complaints; worse from inhaling any
dust. Hysteria, Erratic spasmodic pains. “Will-o’-the-
wisp” like character of its subjective symptoms and its
physometric property are special features. (Samuel
Jones.) Inflation and tension in the abdomen. Millar’s
asthma.

Head. — Absent-minded, irritable. Headache in
single spots, with violent pulsation of temporal arteries.
Outward drawing from glabella. Better in open air.
[Puls.] Red swelling across the bridge of the nose.

Abdornen. — /nflation and tension in abdomen.

Respiratory. — Spasmodic croup. Troublesome res-
Piration, with sudden feeling of anguish and sweat.

Sneezing, with pain in throat. Pain in chest, with
difficult breathing. Tongue feels numb. Asthma; re-
lieved by stool.

Dose. — Tincture and lower potencies.

PRIMULA VERIS
(Cowslip)

Cerebral congestion, with neuralgia; migraine; rheu-
matic and gouty pains,

Head. — Sensation of a band around head; cannot
keep hat on. {[Carbel. ac.] Skin of forehead tense.
Fear of falling when standing up. Violent vertigo, as
if everything turned around. Buzzing in ears; better
in open air.

Respiratory. — Cough, with burning and pricking in
respiratory tracts, Weak voice.

Urinary. — Urine smells strongly of violets.
610 PRIMULA VERIS -- PRIMULA OBCONICA

Extremities. — Right axillary muscles painful.
Weight and lassitude in limbs, especially the shoulders.
Burning in hollow of right hand. Drawing pain in
thumb and big toe

Relationship. —- Compare: Cyclamen; Ranunc.; Gino-
thera — Evening Primrose ~ (exhausting, watery diar-
rhea; cholera infantum; hydrocephaloid); Primula
farinosa — the wild Primrose — (dermatitis, especially
on index fingers and thumbs.)

Dose. — Third potency.

PRIMULA OBCONICA
(Primrose)

The poison of the Primrose occurs in its glandular
hairs, which break easly and- discharge an irritating
fluid which is absorbed into the skin.

But skin symptoms of poisoning appear in sensitive
patients even without coming in direct contact with the
plant. mere nearness being sufficient, just like Poison
ivy. Jutermittency of symptoms; worse right side. Pain
in liver and spleen. Deep infiltration and tension of
tissues; blisters. Paralysed sensation, Weakness.
Pharyngeal soreness alternates with diminished facial
irritation.

Face.—- Moist eczema. Papular eruption on chin.
Burns at night. Urticaria-like eruption. Eyelids swol-
len.

Extremities. — Eczema on arms, wrists, forearms,
hands, papular and excoriated. Rheumatic pain around
shoulder. Palms dry and hot. Cracking over joiuis
and fingers. Eruption hetween fingers, Purple blotches
on back of hands, palmar surface stiff. Blisters on
fingers.

in. — Great itching, worse at night, red and swol-
lent like erysipelas, Tumefied. Small papules on a
PRIMULA OBCONICA — PROPYLAMIN — PRUNUS SPINOSA 611

raised base. Skin symptoms accompanied by febrile
symptoms.

Relationship. — Compare: Khus; Fagopyrun (Anti-
dotal). Humea blegans, similar skin symptoms,

PROPYLAMIN — TRIMETHYLAMINUM
(Distilled Herring-brine)

In acute rheumatism, dissipates fever and pain in a
day or two. Rheumatic prosopalgia, and rheumatic
metastases, especially heart lesions,

Extremities. — Pain im wrists and ankles, worse,
slightest motion, [Bry.] Great restlessness and thirst.
Rheumatism, necdle held in fingers gets too heavy.
Tingling and numbness of fingers. Pain in wrist and
ankle, unable to stand.

Dose. — Ten tu fifteen drops, in about six ounces of
water ; teaspoonful doses every two hours.

PRUNUS SPINOSA
(Black-thorn)

Special action on the urinary organs and head. Very
valuable in certain neuralgias, anasarca, and especially
ceedema pedum. Ankle and foot feel sprained. Ciliary
neuralgia, [Spig.; Saponin.]}

Head. — Pressing-asunder pain beneath skull. Shoot-
ing from right frontal bone through brain to occiput.
Pain in right eyeball, as if it would burst, Piercing
toothache, as if teeth were pulled out; worse, taking
anything warm.

Eyes. — Ciliary neuralgia. Bursting pain in right eye-
ball, shooting like lightning through the brain to occi-
put. Sudden pain in left cye as if it would burst, bet-
ter by lachrymation. Irido-choroiditis. Opacity of
vitreous humor. Eyes feel as if bursting.
612 PRUNUS SPINOSA — PSORINUM

Abdomen. — Ascites. Cramp-like pain in bladder
region; worse, walking,

Rectum. — Hard, nodular stool, with rectal pain, as
if angular body were pressed inward, Burning in anus
after slimy diarrhcea.

Urine. — Tenesmus of bladder. Ineffectual effort to
urinate. Hurricdly impelled to urinate; the urine seems
to pass as far as glans, and then returns and causes
pain in urcthra. Neuralgic dysuria. Must press a long
time before urine appears.

Respiratory. — Wheezing when walking. Oppres-
sion of chest; anxious, short respiration. Angina pec-
toris. Furious beating of heart; worse, slightest motion.

Skin.— Herpes zoster. Dropsy. Itching on tips of
fingers, as if frozen.

Relationship. — Compare: Lauroc.; Prunus padus —
Bird-cherry — (sore throat, pressure behind sternum and
sticking pain in rectum); Prunus Virginiana — Wild
Cherry — (heart tonic; relieves the flagging and dis-
tended ventricle; irritable heart; dilatation of right
heart; cough, worse at night on lying down; weak di-
gestion, especially in elderly people) ; Pyrus — Moun-
tain Ash — (irritation of eyes; constriction around
waist; spasmodic pains in uterus, bladder, heart, cold-
water sensation in stomach, coldness extends up zso-
phagus; neuralgic and gouty pains).

Dose. — Third to sixth potency.

PSORINUM
(Scabies Vesicle)

The therapeutic field of this remedy is found in so-
called psoric manifestations. Psorinum-is a cold medi-
cine; wants the head kept warm, wants warm clothing
even in summer. Extreme sensitiveness to cold. De-
PSORINUM 613

bility, independent of any organic disease, especially the
weakness remaining after acute disease. Lack of re-*
action, i. e., phagocytes defective; when well-chosen!'«
remedies fail to act, Scrofulous patients. ‘Secretions
have a filthy smell. Profuse sweating. Cardiac weak-
ness. Skin symptoms very prominent. Often gives
immunity from cold-catching. Easy perspiration when
walking. Syphilis, inherited and tertiary. Offensive
discharges.

Mind. — Hopeless; despairs of recovery. Melancholy,
deep and persistent; religious, Suicidal tendency.

Head. — Awakens at night with pain as from blow
on head. Chronic headaches; hungry during attacks;
with vertigo. Hammering pain; brain feels too large;
worse, change of weather. Dull, pressive pain in occi-
put. Humid eruption on scalp; hair matted. Hair dry.

Eyes. — Agglutinated. Blepharitis. Chronic oph-
thalmia, that constantly recurs, Edges of lids red, Se-
cretion acrid,

Mouth. — Obstinate rhagades at corners. Tongue,
gums ulcerated; tough mucus of foul taste adheres to
soft palate.

Nose.— Dry, coryza, with stoppage of nose.
Chronic catarrh; dropping from posterior nares. Acne
rosacea.

Ears. -- Raw, red, oozing scabs around cars. Sore
pain behind ears. Herpes from temples over ears to
cheeks. Offensive discharge from eczema around ears.
Intolerable itching. Chronic otorrhcea, Most fetid pus
from ears [Tellur.], brownish, offensive, Deafness.

Face. — Swelling of upper lip. Pale, delicate. Humid
eruption on face. Sickly.

Throat. — Tonsils greatly swollen; painful swallow-
ing, with pain in ears. Profuse, offensive saliva; tough
mucus in throat. Recurring quinsy. Eradicates tend-
614 PSORINUM

ency to quinsy. Hawking up of cheesy, pea-like balls
of disgusting smell and taste. [Agar.]

Stomach. — Eructations like bad eggs. Very hungry
always; must have something to cat in the middle of
the night. Nausea; vomiting of pregnancy. Pain in
abdomen after eating.

Stool. — Mucous, bloody, excessively fetid, dark fluid.
Hard, difficult stool, with blood from rectum and burn-
ing piles. Constipation of infants, especially in pale,
sickly scrofulous children. [Collinson.]

Female. — Leucorrhaa fetid, lumpy, with much back-
ache and debility. Mammz swollen and painful. Pim-
ples oozing an acrid fluid that burns and excoriates the
glands.

Respiratory. — Asthma, with dyspnoea; worse, sit-
ting up; better, lying down and keeping arms spread
wide apart. Dry, hard cough, with great weakness in
chest. Feeling of ulceration undcr sternum. Pain in
chest; better, lying douwu. Cough returns every winter.
from suppressed eruption. Hay-fever returning irregu-
larly every year.

Extremities. — Weakness of joints, as if they would
not hold together. Eruption around finger-nails. Fetid
foot-sweats.

Skin. — Dirty, dingy look. Dry, lustreless, rough
hair. Intolerable itching. Hetpetic eruptions, espe-
cially on scalp and bends of joints with itching; worse,
from warmth of bed. Enlarged glands. Sebaceous
glands secrete excessively; oily skin. Indolent ulcers,
slow to heal, Eczema behind ears. Crusty eruptions
all over. Urticaria after every exertion. Pustules near
finger-nails. :

Fever. — Profuse perspiration; night-sweats.

Sleep. — Sleepless from intulerable itching. Easily
startled. Frightful dreams.
PSORINUM — PTELEA 615

Modalities. — Horse, coffee; Psorinum patient does
not improve while using coffee. Worse, changes of
weather, in hot sunshine, from cold; in winter. Better,
heat, warm clothing, even in summer.

Relationship. —- Complementary : Sulphur.

Compare: Pediculus — Head-louse — (psoric mani-
festations in children, Eruption on dorsum of hands,
feet, neck. Prurigo; pellagra. Unusual aptitude for
study and work). Pediculus (Cooties) transmit typhus
and trench fever. Tuber., Hepar, Sil.; lod. In lack
of reaction compare Calsurca and Natrum ars.

Dose.— Two hundredth and higher potencies.
Should not be repeated tco often.

PTELEA
(Wafer-ash)

Is a remarkable remedy in stomach and liver af-
fections, The aching and heaviness in the region of
tbe liver is greatly aggravated by lying on the left side.
lionic states of stomach, Asthma.

Head. — Feels dull and stupid. Pam from forehead
to rool of nose; pressing-outward pain. Frontal head-
cache; worse, noise, motion, night, rubbing eyes, with
acidity. Temples as if pressed together.

Mouth. — Excess of saliva, with dry bitter taste.
Tongue coated white or yellow; feels rough, swollen.
Papille red and prominent, [Ary, u.) Coating may be
brownish-yellow.

Stomach. — Weight and fullness. Griping in epi-
gastric region, with dryness of mouth. Eructations, nau-
sea, vomiting, Constant sensation of corrosion, heat
and burning in stomach. Stomach feels empty after
eating. Stomach and liver symptoms associated with
pain in limbs.
616 PTELEA — PULEX IRRITANS

Abdomen. — Much weight and pain in right side;
heavy, aching feeling, relieved by lying on right side.
Liver sore, swollen, sensitive to pressure. Retraction
of abdomen.

Respiratory. — Feeling of pressure on lungs and of
suffocation, when lying on back, Asthma; dyspnoea;
cramp-like pain in cardiac region.

Sleep. — Restless, with frightful dreams; night-
mare, awakes languid and unrefreshed.

Modalities. — Worse, lying on left side; early morn-
ing. Betier, eating sour things.

Relationship.— Compare: <Afercur.; Magn. mur.;
Nux; Chelid.

Dose. — First to thirtieth potency.

PULEX IRRITANS
(Common Flea)

Marked urinary and female symptoms.

Head. -— Very impatient, cross, and irritable. Fron-
tal headache, with enlarged feeling of eyes. Face
wrinkled and old-looking.

Mouth. — Metallic taste. Sensation of a thread in
throat. Thirsty, especially during headache.

Stomach. — Breath and taste foul. Intense nausea,
with vomiting, purging, and faintness. Stool very of-
fensive. Abdomen bloated.

Urine. — Scanty with frequent urging, with pressure
on bladder and burning in urethra. Flow stops sud-
denly followed by pain. Urine toul. Cannot retain
urine; must attend to the call without delay. Irritable
bladder before menses.

Female. — Menses delayed. Increased flow of saliva
616 PTELEA — PULEX IRRITANS

Abdomen. — Much weight and pain in right side;
heavy, aching feeling, relieved by lying on right side.
Liver sore, swollen, sensitive to pressure. Retraction
of abdomen.

Respiratory. — Feeling of pressure on lungs and of
suffocation, when lying on back, Asthma; dyspnoea;
cramp-like pain in cardiac region.

Sleep. — Restless, with frightful dreams; night-
mare, awakes languid and unrefreshed.

Modalities. — Worse, lying on left side; early morn-
ing. Betier, eating sour things.

Relationship.— Compare: <Afercur.; Magn. mur.;
Nux; Chelid.

Dose. — First to thirtieth potency.

PULEX IRRITANS
(Common Flea)

Marked urinary and female symptoms.

Head. -— Very impatient, cross, and irritable. Fron-
tal headache, with enlarged feeling of eyes. Face
wrinkled and old-looking.

Mouth. — Metallic taste. Sensation of a thread in
throat. Thirsty, especially during headache.

Stomach. — Breath and taste foul. Intense nausea,
with vomiting, purging, and faintness. Stool very of-
fensive. Abdomen bloated.

Urine. — Scanty with frequent urging, with pressure
on bladder and burning in urethra. Flow stops sud-
denly followed by pain. Urine toul. Cannot retain
urine; must attend to the call without delay. Irritable
bladder before menses.

Female. — Menses delayed. Increased flow of saliva
PULEX IRRITANS — PULSATILLA 617

during. Intense burning in vagina. Leucorrhcea, pro-
fuse, foul, staining a greenish yellow; stains of menses
and leucorrhcea very hard to wash out. Backache.
[O-al. ac.]

Back. — Aches, weak; drawing of muscles below
scapulza.

Fever.— Feels a glow all over, like being over
steam ; chilly, while sitting beside the fire.

Skin. — Prickly itching. Sore spots all over. Skin
emits foul cdor.

Modalities. — Better, sitting or tying down. Worse,
left side; moving about.

Dose. — The higher potencies.

PULSATILLA
(Wind-Flewer)

The disposition and mental state are the chief guid-
ing symptoms to the selection of Pulsatilla, It is pre-
eminently a female remedy, especially for mild, gentle,
yielding disposition. Sad, crying readily; weeps when
talking; changeable, contradictory. The patient seeks
the open air; always feels better there. Mucous mem-
branes are all affected. Discharges thick, bland, and
yellowish-green. Often indicated after abuse of Iron
tonics, and after badly-managed measles. Symptoms
ever changing. Thirstless, peevish, and chilly. When
first serious impairment of health is referred to age of
puberty. Great sensitiveness. Wants the head high.
Feels uncomfortable with only one pillow.

Mind.— Weeps easily. Timid, irresolute. Likes
sympathy. Easily discouraged. Morbid dread of the
opposite sex. Religious melancholy. Given to extremes
of pleasure and pain. Highly emotional.
618 PULSATILLA

Head. — Wandering stitches about head; pains ex-
evening and by warmth. Bursting, semilateral head-
ache, with nausea and vomiting, from overloaded
tend to face and teeth; vertigo; better in open air.
Frontal and supraorhital pains mostly; worse in the
stomach. [Bry.; Nuv.} Neuralgic pains, commencing
in right temporal region, with scalding lachrymation of
affected side. Headache from overwork, Pressure on
vertex.

Ears. — Sensation as if something were being
forced outward. Hearing difficult, as if the ear were
stuffed. Otorrhoeea. Thick, bland discharge; offensive
odor. External ear swollen and red. Catarrhal otitis.
Otalgia, worse at night.

Eyes. — Thick, profuse, yellow, bland discharges.
Itching and burning in eyes. Profuse lachrymation and
secretion of mucus, ids inflamed, agglutinaled. Stycs.
Veins of fundus oculi greatly enlarged. Ophthalmia
neonatcrum. Subacute conjunctivitis, with dyspepsia;
worse, in warm room.

Nose. — Coryza; stoppage of right nostril, pressing
pain at root of nose. Loss of smell. Large green fetid
scales in nose. Stoppage in evening. Yellow mucus;
abundant in morning. Bad smeils, as of old catarrh.
Nasal bones sore.

Face. —- Right-sided neuralgia, with profuse lachry-
mation. Swelling of lower lip, which is cracked in
middle. Prosopalgia towards evening till midnight;
chilly, with pain.

Mouth. -— Greasy taste. Dry mouth, without thirst.
Frequently licks the dry lips, Crack in middle of lower
lip. Yellow or white tonguc, covered with a tenacious
mucus. Toothache ; relieved by holding cold water in
mouth. [Coff.] Offensive odor from mouth. [Merc.;
PULSATILLA 619

Aur.) Food, especially bread, tastes hitter. Much sweet
saliva. Altcrations of taste, bitter, bilious, greasy, salty,
foul, Loss of taste.

Stomach. — Averse to fat food, warm food, and drink.
Eructations; taste of food remains a long time; after
ices, fruits, pastry. Bittcr taste, diminished taste of all
food. Pain as from subcutaneous ulceration, Dislikes
butter. [Sarg.] Heartburn. Dyspepsia, with great
tightness aiter a meal; must loosen clothing. Thirst-
lessness, with nearly all complaints. Vomiting of food
eaten long before. Pain in stomach an hour after eat-
ing. [Nuzv.] Weight as from a stone, especally in
morning on awakening. Gnawing, liungry feeling.
[Abies c.] Perceptible pulsation in pit of stomach.
[dsaf ]  All-gone sensation, especially in tea drinkers.
Waterbrash, with foul taste in the morning,

Abdomen. — Painful, distended; loud rumbling.
Pressure as from a stone. Colic, with chilliness in
evening.

Stool. — Rumbling, watery; worse night. No two
stools alike. After fruit. [-Ars.; Chin.) Blind hemor-
rhoids, with itching and sticking pains. Dysentery;
mucus and blood, with chilliness. [4ferc.; Rheum.]
Two or three normal stools daily.

Urine. — Increased desire; worse when lying down.
Burning in orifice of urethra during and after mictu-
rition. Involuntary micturition at night, while cough-
ing or passing flatus. After urinating, spasmodic pain
in bladder.

Femafe.— Amenorrheea. [Cimicif.; Senec.; Poly-
gon.] Suppressed menses from wet feet, nervous de-
bility, or chlorosis. Tardy menses. Too late, scanty,
thick, dark, clotted, changeable, intermittent. Chilliness,
nausea, downward pressure, painful, flow intermits.
620 PULSATILLA

Leucorrhoea acrid, burning, creamy, Pain in back; tired
feeling. Diarrhoea during or after menses.

Male. — Qrchitis; pain from abdomen to testicles.
Thick, yellow discharge from urethra; late stage of
gonorrheea. Stricture; urine passed only in drops, and
stream interrupted. [Clemat.] Acute prostatitis. Pain
and tenesmus in urinating, worse lying on back.

Respiratory. — Capricious hoarseness; comes and
goes. Dry cough in evening and at night; must sit up
in bed to get relief; and loose cough in the morning,
with copious mucus expectoration. Pressure upon the
chest and soreness, Great soreness of episgastrium.
Urine emitted with cough. [Caust.] Pain as from ul-
cer in middle of chest. Expectoration bland, thick, bitter,
greenish. Short breath, anxiety, and palpitation when
lying on left side. [Phos.] Smothering sensation on
lying down.

Sleep. — Wide awake in the curning; first sleep rest-
less. Wakes languid, unrefreshed. Irresistible sleepi-
ness in afternoon. Sleeps with hands over head.

Back. — Shooting pain in the nape and back, be-
tween shoulders; in sacrum after sitting.

Extremities. — Drawing, tensive pain in thighs and
legs, with restlessness, sleeplessness and chilliness. Pain
in limbs, shifting rapidly; tensive pain, letting up with
a snap. Numbness around elbow. Hip-joint painful.
Knees swollen, with tearing, drawing pains. Boring
pain in heels toward evening; suffering worse from
letting the affected limb hang down. [Vipera.}) Veius
in forearms and hands swollen, Feet red, inflamed,
swollen. Legs feel heavy and weary.

Skin. — Urticaria, after rich fuod, with diarrhea,
from delayed menses, worse undressing. Measles. Acne
at puberty. Varicose veins,
PULSATILLA — PYROGENIUM 621

Fever. — Chilliness, even in warm room, without
thirst. Chilly with pains, in spots, worse evening. Chill
about 4 p.m. Intolerable burning heat at night, with
distended veins; heat in parts of body, coldness in
other. One-sided sweat; pains during sweat. External
heat is intolerable, veins ure distended. During apy-
rexia, headache, diarrhoea, loss of appetite, nausea.

Modalities — Worse, from heat, rich fat food. after
eating, towards evening, warm room, lying on left or
on painless side, when allowing feet to hang down.
Better, open air, motion, cold applications, cold food
and drinks, though not thirsty.

Relationship. — Pulsatilla Nuttaliana, identical effects.

Compare: Cyclamen; Kali bich.; Kali sulph.; Sulphur.

Pimenta — Allspice — (one-sided neuralgias, parts of
body hot and cold).

Anagyris (headache, amerorrheea).

Complementary: Coffea; Chamom.; Nux.

Dose. — Third to thirticth attenuation.

PYROGENIUM
(Artificial Sepsin)

This remedy was introduced by English Home-
opathists, prepared from decoinposed lean beef allowed
to stand in the sun for two weeks and then potentized.
The provings and most of the clinical experience have
been obtained from this preparation. But, subsequently,
Dr. Swan potentized some septic pus, which preparation
has also been proved and clinically applied. There does
not seem to be any maiked difference in their effects.

Pyrogen is the great remedy for septic states, with
intense restlessness. “In septic fevers, especially puer-
peral, Pyrogen has demonstrated its great value as a
622 PYROGENIUM

homeopathic dynamic antiseptic.” (H.C. Allen.) Hec-
tic, typhoid, typhus, ptomaine poisoning, diphtheria, dis-
secting wounds, sewer-gas poisoning, chronic malaria,
after-effects of miscarriage, all these conditions at
times may present symptoms calling for this unique
medicine, All discharges are horribly offensive — men-
strual, lochial, diarrhoea, vomit, sweat, breath, etc.
Great pain and violent burning in abscesses. Chronic
complaints that date back to septic conditions, Threat-
ening heart failure in zymotic and septic fevers.

Mind. — Full of anxicty and insane notions, Loqua-
cious. Thinks he is very wealthy. Restless, Feels if
crowded with arms and legs. Cannot tell whether
dreaming while awake or asleep.

Head. — Painless throbbing. Fan-like motion of
ale nasi. [Lyc.; Phos.) Bursting headache with rest-
lessness.

Mouth. — Tongue red and dry, clean, cracked, smooth,
as though varnished. Throat dry, articulation difficult.
Nausea and vomiting. Taste terribly fetid. Breath
horrible.

Stomach. — Coffee-gtounds vomiting. Vomits water,
when it becomes warm in stomach.

Abdomen. — Intolerable tenesmus of both bladder
and rectum. Bloated, sore, cutting pain.

Stool. — Diarrhwa, hornbly offensive, brown-black,
painless, involuntary. Constipation, with complete in-
crtia [Opium]: obstinate from impaction, Stools large,
Hlack, carrion-like, or smal! black balls.

Heart. — Tired feeling about heart. Palpitatinn Sen-
sation as if heart were too full, Always can hear her
heart beat. Pulse abnormally rapid, out of proportion
to the temperature, Pain in region of left nipple. Con-
scious of heart.
PYROGENIUM 623

Female. — Puerperal peritonitis, with extreme fetor.
Septicemia following abortion. Menses horribly of-
fensive. Uterine hamorrhages. Fever at each men-
strual period, consequent upon latent pelvic inflamma-
tion. Septic puerperal infection (12x).

Fever. — Coldness and chilliness. Seplic fevers. La-
tent pyogenic condition. Chill begins in back. Tem-
perature iises rapidly. Great heat with profuse hot
sweat, but szvcaling does not cause a fall in temperature.

Extremities. — Throbbing in vessels cf neck. Numb-
nes of hands, arms, feet. Aching in ail limbs and
hones. Bed feels too hard. [-rn.] Great debility in
the morning. Soreness; better by motion. [Rhus.]
Rapid decubitus of septic origin.

Skin. — Smail cut or injury becomes much swollen
and inflamed — discolored. Dry.

Sleep. — Seems to be in semi-sleep. Dreams. all
night.

Modalities. — Relief from motion.

Relationship. — Compare: Sireptoccin (anti-febrile
action; septic symptoms in infectious diseases). Rapid
in its action, especially in its effect on temperature;
Staphylocin (Shedd) in, diseases where the staphylococ-
cus is the chief bacterial factor, as acne, abscess, fur-
uncle; empyema, endocarditis, etc.) ; Sepin—A_ toxin
of Proteus vulgaris, prepared by Dr. Shedd, same
symptoms as Pyrogen, of which it is the main con-
stituent; Echinacea; Carbo; Ars.; Iach.; Rhus; Bapt.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth and higher potencies.
Should not be repeated too frequently.
624 QUASSIA —— QUERCUS GLANDIUM SPIRITUS

QUASSIA
(Quassia-wood)

Acts on gastric organs as a tonic. [Gentian; Hydr.]
Seems to possess marked action on eyes, producing am-
blyopia and cataract.

Stomach. — Atonic dyspepsia, with gas and acidity.
Heartburn and gastralgia. Regurgitation of food. Ab-
domen feels empty and retracted.

Urinary. — Excessive desire —impossible to retain
urine; copious micturition day and night. As soon as
the child wakes up the bed is drenched.

Extremities. — Inclination to yawn and_ stretch.
[Rhus.] Sensation of coldness over back. Prostration,
with hunger. Cold extremities, with sensation of in-
ternal coldness. [Heloderma.]}

Dose. — First to third potency.

QUERCUS GLANDIUM SPIRITUS
(Spirit distilled from Tincture of Acorn Kernels)

Used first by Rademacher for chronic spleen affec-
tions; spleen-dropsy. Antidotes effects of Alcohol.
Vertigo; deafness, with noises in head. Takes away
craving for alcoholics; give dose as below for several
months. Dropsy and liver affections. Useful in gout,
old malarial cases with flatulence.

Relationship. — Compare: Angelica in tincture, five
drops, three times daily, produces disgust for liquor;
also for atony of different organs, dyspepsia, nervous
headache, etc.; chronic bronchitis to increase expectora-
tion: Ceanoth.; Lach.; Nat. mur.; Helianthus (spleen
enlarged and painful).
QUERCUS GLAND. SPIR.— QUIL. SAP.— RADIUM 625

Dose. — Ten drops to a teaspoonful of the distilled
spirit to three to four tines a day. A passing diarrhea
often appears for a time when using it. Curative effect.

QUILLAYA SAPONARIA
(Chile Soap-bark)

Produces and cures symptoms of acute catarrh, sneez-
ing and sore throat. Most effective in the beginning of
corysa, frequently checking its further development.
Colds with sore throat; heat and dryness of throat.
Cough with difficult expectoration.

Relationship. — Compare: Kali hyd.; Gels.; Cepa.
Saponerta (sore throat, involunary urination).

Dose. — Tincture and first potency.

RADIUM
(Radium Bromide)

An important addition to the Materia Medica, espe-
cially since the provings by Diffenbach have precision-
ized its use. Radium brom. of 1,800,000 radio-activity
was employed. Found effective in the treatment of
rheumatism and gout, in skin affections generally, acne
rosacea, mzvi, moles, ulcers and cancers. Lowered
blood pressure. Severe aching pains all over, with rest-
lessness, better moving about. Marked increase in the
polymorphonuclear neutrophiles. Great weakness.

Mind.— Apprehensive, depressed; fear of being
alone in the dark; great desire to be with People. Tired
and irritable.

Head. — Vertigo, with pain in back of head, left when
in bed. Occipital and vertex pain, accompanying severe
lumbar aching. Scvere pain over right eye, spreading
626 RADIUM

back to occiput and to vertex, better in open air. Head
feels heavy. Frontal headache. Both eyes ache. Itch-
ing and dryness of nasal cavities, better in open air.
Aching pain in angle of right lower jaw. Violent tri-
facial neuralgia.

Mouth. — Dryness of mouth. Metallic taste. Prick-
ling sensation on end of tongue.

Stomach. — Empty feeling in stomach. Warm sen-
sation in stomach. Aversion to sweets, ice-cream. Nau-
sea and sinking sensation, belching of gas.

Abdomen. — Pain, violent cramps, rumbling, full of
gas, pain over McBurney's point, and at location of
sigmoid flexure. Much flatulence: Alternating con-
stipation and loose movements. Pruritus ani and piles.

Urinary. — Increased elimination of solids, particu-
larly of chlorides. Renal irritation, albuminuria, granu-
lar and hyaline casts. Nephritis with rheumatic symp-
toms.

Female. — Pruritus vulve. Delayed and irregular
menstruation and backache. Aching pains in abdomen
over pubes when flow comes on. Right breast sore,
relieved by hard rubbing.

Respiratory. — Persistent cough with tickling in
suprasternal fossa. Dry, spasmodic cough. Throat dry,
sore, chest constricted.

Back. —- Aching in back of neck. Pain and lame-
ness in cervical vertebra, worse dropping head forward,
better standing, or sitting erect. Lumbar and sacrat
backache, pain appears te he in bene, continued motion
relicves. Backache between shoulders and lumbar-sacral
region, better alter walking.

., Extremities.— Severe pain in all the limbs, joints,
esporially in knee and ankles, sharp pains in shoulders,
626 RADIUM

back to occiput and to vertex, better in open air. Head
feels heavy. Frontal headache. Both eyes ache. Itch-
ing and dryness of nasal cavities, better in open air.
Aching pain in angle of right lower jaw. Violent tri-
facial neuralgia.

Mouth. — Dryness of mouth. Metallic taste. Prick-
ling sensation on end of tongue.

Stomach. — Empty feeling in stomach. Warm sen-
sation in stomach. Aversion to sweets, ice-cream. Nau-
sea and sinking sensation, belching of gas.

Abdomen. — Pain, violent cramps, rumbling, full of
gas, pain over McBurney's point, and at location of
sigmoid flexure. Much flatulence: Alternating con-
stipation and loose movements. Pruritus ani and piles.

Urinary. — Increased elimination of solids, particu-
larly of chlorides. Renal irritation, albuminuria, granu-
lar and hyaline casts. Nephritis with rheumatic symp-
toms.

Female. — Pruritus vulve. Delayed and irregular
menstruation and backache. Aching pains in abdomen
over pubes when flow comes on. Right breast sore,
relieved by hard rubbing.

Respiratory. — Persistent cough with tickling in
suprasternal fossa. Dry, spasmodic cough. Throat dry,
sore, chest constricted.

Back. —- Aching in back of neck. Pain and lame-
ness in cervical vertebra, worse dropping head forward,
better standing, or sitting erect. Lumbar and sacrat
backache, pain appears te he in bene, continued motion
relicves. Backache between shoulders and lumbar-sacral
region, better alter walking.

., Extremities.— Severe pain in all the limbs, joints,
esporially in knee and ankles, sharp pains in shoulders,
RADIUM — RANUNCULUS BULBOSUS 627

arms, hands and fingers. Legs, arms and neck feel
hard and brittle, as though they would break on moving.
Arms feel heavy. Cracking in shoulder. Pain in tocs,
calves, hip-joint, popliteal spaces. Muscles of legs and
hips sore. Arthritis, aching pains, worse at night.

Skin. — Small pimples. Erythema and dermatitis,
with itching, burning, swelling and redness. Necrosis
and ulceration, Itching all over body, burning of skin,
as if afire.

Sleep. — Restless, Sleepiness with lethargy. Dreams
vivid, busy.

Fever. -— Cold sensation internally, with chattering
of teeth until noon. Internal chilliness followed hy heat
of the skin, associated with bowel movements and flatu-
lence.

Modalities. — Better, open air, continued motion, hot
Lath, lying down, pressure. JVorse, getting up.

Relationship. — Compare: X-Ray; Rhus; Sepia,
Uranium; Ars.; Pulsat.; Caustic.

Antidotes: Rhus ven.; Tellur.
Dose. — Thirtieth and twelfth trituration

RANUNCULUS BULBOSUS
(Buttercup)

Acts especially upon the muscular tissue and_ skin,
and its most characteristic effects are upon the chest
walls, like pleurodynia. Bad cffects of Alchohol: deli-
rium tremens. Spasmodic hiccough. Hydrothorax.
Shocks throughout the whole body.

Head. — Irritable, pains in forehead and eyeballs.
Creeping sensation in scalp.

Eyes. — Day-blindness; mist before eyes; pressure
628 RANUNCULUS BULBOSUS

and smartng in eyes, as from smoke. Pain over right
eye; better, standing and walking. Herpes on cornea.
Vesicles on cornea, with intense pain, photophobia, and
lachrymation.

Chest. — Various kinds of pains and soreness, as if
bruised in sternum, ribs, intercostal spaces, and both
hypochondria. IJntercostal rheumatism. Chilliness in
chest when walking in open air. Stitches in chest,
between shoulder-blades; worse, inspiring, moving.
Rheumatic pain in chest, as from subcutaneous ulcera-
tion. Tenderness of abdomen to pressure. Muscular
pain along lower margin of the shoulder-blade; burn-
ing in small spots from sedentary employment.

Skin. — Burning and intense itching; worse, contact.
Hard excrescences. Herpetic eruptions, with great itch-
mg. Shingles; bluish vesicles. Itching in palms. Blis-
ter-like eruption in palms. Corns sensitive. Horny
skin. Finger-tips and palms chapped. Vesicular and
pustular eruptions.

Modalities. — Worse, open air, motion, contact, atmos-
pheric changes, wet, stormy weather, evening. Cold
air brings on all sorts of ailments.

Relationship. — Incompatible; Sulph.; Staph.

Compare: Ranunc. acris (pain in lumbar muscles and
joints by bending and turning body); Ranunc. glacialis
— Carlina— (enormous weight in head with vertigo
and sensation as of impending apoplexy; night-sweats
—more on thighs); Ranunc. repens (crawling sen-
sation in forehead and scalp in evening in bed) ; Ranunc,
flammula (ulceration; gangrene of arm). Compare,
also: Bry.; Croton; Mez.; Euphorb.

Antidotes: Bry.; Camph.; Rhus.

Dose. — Mother tincture, in tcn to thirty drop
doses in delirium tremens; third to thirtieth potency
generally.
RANUNCULUS SCELERATUS 629

RANUNCULUS SCELERATUS
(Marsh Buttercup)

1s more irritating than others of this botanical family,
as seen in the skin symptoms. Boring, gnawing pain
very marked. Pemphigus. Periodical complaints.
Fainting with pain in stomach.

Head. — Gnawing in one spot left of vertex. Fright-
ful dreams about corpses, serpents, battles, etc. Fluent
coryza, with sneezing and burning micturition,

Mouth. — Teeth and gums sensitive. Tongue mapped.
Denuded patches. Mouth sore and raw. Burning and
raumess of tonguc.

Abdomen. — Sensation of a plug behind umbilicus.
Pain over region of liver, with sensation as if diar-
rhea would set in. Pressure as of a plug behind right
false ribs; worse, deep inspiration.

Chest.— Integument sensitive. Bruised pain and
weakness in the chest every evening. Sore burning be-
hind xiphoid cartilage.

Skin. — Vesicular eruption, with tendency to form
large blisters. Acrid exudation, which makes surround-
ing parts sore.

Extremities. — Boring pain. Sudden burning stick-
ing in right toe. Corns, with burning and soreness, es-
pecially when feet hang down. Gout in fingers and
toes,

Dose. — First to third potency.
630 RAPHANUS

RAPHANUS
(Black Garden Radish)

Great accumulation and incarceration of flatulence.
“Globus” symptoms. Seborrhoea, with greasy skin.
Pemphigus. Hysteria; chilliness in hack and arms.
Sexual insomnia. [Kali brou.] Nymphomania. Post-
operative gas pains.

Head. — Sadness, aversion to children, especially

girls. Headache, brain feels tender and sore. C&dema
of lower eyelids.

Throat. — Hot-ball feeling from uterus to throat,
stopping there. Heat and burning in throat.

Stomach. — Putrid cructations. Burning in cpigas-
trium, followed by hot eructation.

Abdomen. — Retching and vomiting, loss of appe-
tite. Distended, tympanitic, hard. No flatus emitted
upward or downward. Griping about navel. Stool liquid.
frothy, profuse, brown, with colic, and pad-like swell-
ing of intestines.

Female. — Nervous irritation of genitals. Menses
very profuse and long-lasting. Nymphomania, with
aversion to her own sex and to children, and sexual
insomnia.

Urine, — Turbid, with yeast-like sediment. Urine
more copious, thick like milk.

Chest.— Pain in chest extends to back and to
throat. Heavy lump and coldness in center of chest.

Relationship.— Compare: Momordica (worse, near
splenic flexure); Carbo; Anacar.; Arg. nit.; Brassica.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.
RATANBIA 631

RATANHIA
(Krameria — Mapato)

The rectal symptoms are most important, and have
received much clinical confirmation. It has cured
pterygium. Violent hiccough. Cracked nipples. [Graph.;
Eup. ar.)

Head. -- Bursting in head after stool, and when sit-
ting with head bent forward. Sensation as if scalp
from nose to vertex were stretched.

Stomach. — Pain like knives cutting the stomach.

Rectum. — Aches, as if full of broken glass. Anus
aches and burns tor hours after stool. Feels con-
stricted. Dry heat at anus, with sudden knife-like
stitches. Stools must be forced with great effort; pro-
trusion of hemmorrhoids. Fissures of anus, with great
constriction, burning like fire, as do the hemorrhoids;
temporarily relieved by cold water. Fetid, thia diar-
rhoea; stools burn; burning pains before and after
stools. Oozing at anus. Pin-worms. [Sant.; Teuc.;
Spig.] Itching of anus.

Relationship. — Compare: Paon.; Croton (rectal neu-
ralgia); Macuna prurens — Dolichos (piles, with
burning; hemorrhoidal diathesis); Sang. nit.; Silico-
sulpho-calcite of Alumina — (cancer); Slag — blast
iron furnace cinder — (anal itching, piles, and consti-
pation ; housemaid’s knee).

Dose.— Third to sixth potency. Locally, the
Cerate has proved invaluable in many rectal complaints.
632 RIUAMNUS CALIFORNICA

RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA
(California Coffee-tree)

One of the most positive remedies for rheumatism
and musculur pains. Pleurodynia, lumbago, gastralgia.
Vesical tenesmus; dysmenorrhaa of myalgic origin;
pain in head, neck, and face. Juflammatory rheumatism,
joints swollen, painful; tendency to metastasis; profuse
sweat,

Provings of students. 2x potency.

Mind. — Nervous, restless, irritable. Lassitude; men-
tally dull and dazed; unable to concentrate mind on
studies,

Head. — Dissy full feeling. Heavy bruised sensation ;
hetter, from pressure. Bursting feeling with every step.
Soreness, especially m occiput and vertex, worse, bend-
ing over. Dull pain in left cemple. Dull aching in
frontal region (lett), extending backwards and over
forehead. Deep, right-sided frontal headache, Twitch-
ing eyelids,

Ears. — Duliness of hearmy. Soreness, deep under
right tragus on swallowing.

Face. — Flushed, hot and glowing. Outward pres-
sure from malar processes .

Mouth. -— Canker sore between gums and _ lips.
Tongue coated, with clean, pink central patch.

Throat. — Dry, rough. Soreness on right side and

tonsil. {

Bowels. -— Constipation with some flatus. Tenesmus
and dry stool. Flatulent diarrhcea.

Genito-urinary. — Increased urination. Tickling in
anterior urethra, small morning drop (no previous
gvnorrheea). Sexual desire increased.
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA — RHEUM 633

Respiratory. — Substernal oppression. Tenderness
on pressure of right intercostal muscles,

Heart. — Variation of pulse. Slow pulse (55).

Extremities. — Unable to control muscular action.
Legs sore. Walked like a drunken man.

Modality. — Symptoms worse in evening.

Relationship. — Rhamnus cuthartica — Frangula —
European Buch-Horn— (abdominal symptoins, colic,
diarrhoea: hemorrhoids, especially chronic). Rhamnus
Purshiana — Cascara Saqrada — (palliative in constipa-
tion, as an intestinal tonic, and dyspepsia dependent
thereon 10-15 drops of tincture).

Dose. — Tincture in 15-drop doses every four hours.

RHEUM
(Rhubarb)

_ OF frequent use in children with sour diarrhoea; dif-
ficult dentition. Whole child smells sour.

Mind. — Impatient and vehement; desires many
things and cries, [Cina.]

Head. — Sweat on hairy scalp; constant and pro-
fuse. Cool sweat on the face, especially about mouth
and nose.

Mouth. — Much saliva. Sensation of coolness in
teeth. Difficult teething; restless and irritable. Breath
smells sour. [Chant]

Stomach. — Desire for various kinds of food, but
soon tires of all. Throbbing in pit. Feels full.

Abdomen. — Colicky pain about navel. Colic when
uncovering. Wind seems to rise up to chest.

Rectum. — Before stool. unsuccessful urging to
urinate. Stools smell sour, pasty, with shivering and
634 RHEUM — RHODIUM — RHODODENDRON

tenesmus, and burning in anus. Sour diarrhoea dur-
ing dentition. Colicky, even ineffectual urging to evacu-
ate altered fzcal stools.

Modalities. — Worse, unccvering, after eating, mov-
ing about.

Relationship. — Compare: Mag. phos.; Hep.; Pod.;
Cham.; Ipec.

Antidotes: Camph.; Cham.

Complementary: Mag. carb.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency.

RHODIUM
(Metal Chemical Element)

(Proved by MacFarlan with the 200th potency.)

Nervous and tearful. Frontal headache; shocks
through head. Fleeting neuralgic pains in head, over
eys, in ear, both sides uf suse, teeth. Loose cold in
head. Lips dry. Nausea especially from sweets. Dull
headache. Stiff neck and rheumatic pain down left
shoulder and arm. Itching in arms, palms and _ face.
Loose stools with gripings in abdomen. Hyper-
active peristalsis, tenesmus after stool. More urine
passed. Cough scratchy, wheezy. Thick, yellow mucus
from chest. Feels weak, dizzy and a tired feeling.

RHODODENDRON
(Snow-rose)

Rheumatic and gouty symptoms well marked. Rheu-
matism in the hot season. The modality (worse be-
fore a storm) is a true guiding symptom.

Mind. — Dread of a storm; particularly afraid of
thunder. Forgetful.
RHODODENDRON 635

Head. — Aching in temples. Tearing pain in bones.
Headache; worse, wine, wind, cold and wet weather.
Pain in eyes before a storm. Ciliary neuralgia, in-
volving eyeball, orbit, and head. Heat in eyes when
using them.

Eyes. — Muscular asthenopia; darting pains through
eyes from head, worse before a storm.

Ears. -- Difficult hearing, with whizzing and ring-
ing in ears. Hearing better in the morning; noises
come on after patient has been up a few hours.

Face. —- Prosopalgia; violent, jerking pain involving
dental nerves, from temple to lower jaw and chin;
better, warmth and cating. Toothache in damp weather
and before a storm. Swollen gums. Stumps of teeth
are loosened.

Chest. — Violent pleuritic pains running downward
in left anterior chest. Breathless and speechless from
violent pleuritic pains running down the anterior chest.
Stitches in spleen from fast walking. Crampy pain
under short ribs.

Male. — Testicles swollen, painful, drawn up. Or-
chitis; glands feel crushed. Induration and swelling
of testes after gonorrhea. Hydrocele. [Sil.]

Extremities. — Joints swollen. Gouty inflammation
of great toe-joint. Rheumatic tearing in all limbs;
worse, at rest and in stormy weather. Stiffness of neck.
Pain in shoulders, arms, wrists; worse when at rest.
Pains in bones in spots, and reappear by change of
weather. Cannot sleep unless legs are crossed.

Modalities. — Worse, before a storm. All symptoms
reappear in rough weather, night, towards morning.
Better, after the storm breaks, warmth, and eating.

Relationship. — Compare: Ampelopsis (hydrocele and
renal dropsy); Dulc.; Rhus; Nat. sulph.

Dose. — First to sixth potency.
636 RHUS AROMATICA — RHUS GLABRA

RHUS AROMATICA
(Fragrant Sumach)

Renal and urinary affections, especially diabetes.
Enuresis due to vesical atony: senile incontinence.
Hematuria and cystitis come within the range of this
remedy.

Urine. — Pale, albuminous. Jucontinence. Severe
pain at beginning or before urinalion, causing great
agony in children. Constant dribbling. Diabetes, large
quantities of urine of low specific gravity. [Phos. ac.;
«Icet. ac.)

Dose. — Tincture, in rather material doses.

RHUS GLABRA
(Smooth Sumach)

Epistaxis and occipital headache. Fetid flatus. UI-
ceration of mouth. Dreams of flying through the air.
[Sticta.] Profuse perspiration arising from debility.
[China.] It is claimed that this remedy will so disin-
fect the bowels that the flatus and stools will be free
from odor. It acts well in putrescent conditions with
tendency to ulceration.

Mouth. — Scurvy; nursing sore mouth. [Veronica.]
Aphthous stomatitis.

Relationship. — Said to be antidotal to the detion
of Mercury, and has been employed jn the treatment
of secondary syphilis after mercurialization.
«Dose. — Tincture. Usually locally to soft, spongy

‘hgums, aphtha, pharyngitis, etc. Internally, first potency.
636 RHUS AROMATICA — RHUS GLABRA

RHUS AROMATICA
(Fragrant Sumach)

Renal and urinary affections, especially diabetes.
Enuresis due to vesical atony: senile incontinence.
Hematuria and cystitis come within the range of this
remedy.

Urine. — Pale, albuminous. Jucontinence. Severe
pain at beginning or before urinalion, causing great
agony in children. Constant dribbling. Diabetes, large
quantities of urine of low specific gravity. [Phos. ac.;
«Icet. ac.)

Dose. — Tincture, in rather material doses.

RHUS GLABRA
(Smooth Sumach)

Epistaxis and occipital headache. Fetid flatus. UI-
ceration of mouth. Dreams of flying through the air.
[Sticta.] Profuse perspiration arising from debility.
[China.] It is claimed that this remedy will so disin-
fect the bowels that the flatus and stools will be free
from odor. It acts well in putrescent conditions with
tendency to ulceration.

Mouth. — Scurvy; nursing sore mouth. [Veronica.]
Aphthous stomatitis.

Relationship. — Said to be antidotal to the detion
of Mercury, and has been employed jn the treatment
of secondary syphilis after mercurialization.
«Dose. — Tincture. Usually locally to soft, spongy

‘hgums, aphtha, pharyngitis, etc. Internally, first potency.
RHUS TOXICODENDRON 637

RHUS TOXICODENDRON
(Poison-ivy)

The effects on the skin, rheumatic pains, mucous
membrane affections, and a typhoid type of fever, make
this remedy frequently indicated. Motion always “lim-
hers up” the Rhus patient, and hence he feels better
jor a time from a change of pusition. Ailments from
strams, overlifting, getting wet while perspiring. Sep-
tic conditions. [Echinac.] * Rheumatism in the cold
season,

Mind. — Listless, sad. Thoughts of suicide. Latreme
restlessness, with continued change of position, Deli-
rium, with fear of heing poisoned. {//yos.]  Sen-
sorta becomes cloudy. Greal apprehension at night,
cannot remain in bed.

Head. — Feels as if a board were strapped on the
forehead. Vertigo when rising. //eavy head. Brain
feels loose and a; if struck against skull on walking or
rising. Occipital pain. Scalp sensitive; worse on side
lain on. Headache in occiput [A/tus vad.]: painful to
touch. Humid eruptions on scalp; itching greatly.

Eyes. — Swollen, red, oedematous; orbital cellulitis.
Pustular inflammations. Photophobia; profuse flow of
yellow pus. Lids inflamed, agglutinated, swollen. Old
myured eyes. Cireumscribed corneal injection. Iritis,
after exposure to cold and dampness, and of rheumatic
origin, Eye painful on turning it or pressing, can
hard? move it, as in acute retrobulbar neuritis. Pro-
fuse gush of hot, scalding tears upon opening lids.

Ears. — Pain in ears, with sensation as if something
were in them. Lobules swollen. Discharge of bloody
pus.

Nose. — Sneezing, coryza from getting wet. Tip of
638 RHUS TOXICODENDRON

nose red, sore, ulcerated. Swelling of nose. Nose-
bleed on stooping.

Face. — Jaws crack when chewing. Easy dislocation
of jaw. [Jgn.; Petrol.) Swollen face, erysipelas.
Cheek bones sensitive to touch. Parotitis. Facial neu-
ralgia, with chilliness; worse, evening. Crusta lactea.
[Calc.; Viol. tric.]

Mouth. — Tecth feel loose and long; gums sore.
Tongue red and cracked; coated, except red triangular
space at the tip; dry and red at edges. Corners of
mouth ulcerated; fever-blisters around mouth and chin.
[Nat mur] Pain in maxillary joint.

Throat. — Sore, with swollen glands. Sticking pain
on swallowing. Parotitis, left side.

Stomach. — Want cf appetite for any kind of food,
with unquenchable thirst. Bitter taste. (Cupr.] Nau-
sea, vertigo, and bloated abdomen after eating. De-
sire for milk, Great thirst, with dry mouth and throal.
Pressure as from a stone. [Bry.; Ars.] Drowsy after
eating.

Abdomen. — Violent pains, relieved by lying on ab-
domen. Swelling of inguinal glands. Pain in region
of ascending colon. Colic, compelling to walk bent.
Excessive distention after eating. Rumbling of flatus
on first rising, but disappears with continued motion,

Rectum. — Diarrhea of blood, slizne, and reddish
mucus. Dysentery, with tearing pains down thighs.
Stools of cadaverous odor. Frothy, painless stools.

Urinary. — Dark, turbid, high-colored, scanty urine,
with white sediment. Dysuria, with loss of blood.

Male. — Swelling of glans and prepuce — dark-red
erysipelatous; scrotum thick, swollen, a@dematous.
Etching intense.
RHUS TOXICODENDRON 639

Female. — Swelling, with intense itching of vulva.
Pelvic articulations stiff when beginning to move.
Menses early, profuse, and prolonged, acrid. Lochia
thin, protracted, offensive, diminished [Puls.; Secale},
with shooting upwards in vagina. [Sep.]

Respiratory. — Tickling behind upper sternum.
Dry, teasing cough from midnight until morning, during
a chill, or when putting hands out of bed. Hemoptysis
from overexertion; blood bright red. Influenza, with
aching in all bones. [Eup. perf.} Hoarseness from
overstraining voice. [Arn.] Oppression of the chest,
cannot get breath with sticking pains. Bronchial coughs
in old people, worse on awaking and with expectoration
of small plugs of mucus.

Heart.— Hypertrophy from overexertion. Pulse
quick, weak, irregular, intermittent, with numbness of
left arm. Trembling and palpitation when sitting still.

Back. — Pain between shoulders on swallowing.
Pain and stiffness in small of back; better, motion, or
lying on something hard; worse, while sitting. Stiffness
of the nape of the neck.

Extremities. — Hot, painful swelling of joints.
Pains tearing in tendons, ligaments, and fascia. Rheu-
matic pains spread over a large surface at nape of neck,
loins, and extremities. Soreness of condyles of bones.
Limbs stiff, paralyzed. The cold fresh air is not toler-
ated; tt makes the skin painful. Pain along ulnar nerve.
Tearing down thighs. Sciatica; worse, cold, damp
weather, at night. Numbness and formication, after
overwork and exposure. Paralysis; trembling after
exertion. Tenderness about knee-joint. Loss of power
in forearm and fingers; crawling sensation in the tips
of fingers.

Fever. — Adynamic; restless, trembling. Typhoid;
tongue dry and brown; sordes; bowles loose; great
640 _ RHUS TOXICODENDRON

restlessness, Intermittent; chill, with dry cough anc
restlessness. During heat, uticaraa. Hydroa. Chilly, a:
if cold water were poured over him, followed by hea!
and inclination to stretch the limbs.

Skin. — Red, swollen; itching uttense. Vesicles
herpes; urticaria; pemphigus; erysipelas; vesicular sup
purative forins. Glands swollen. Cellulitis.

Sleep. — Dreams of great exertion. Heavy sleep, a
from stupor. Sleepless before midnight.

Modalities. — Hl’orse, cold, wet rainy weather anc
after rain; at night, during rest, drenching, when lying
on back or ‘right side. Better, wally’ dry weather, mo-
tion; walkiigtHahge of poshibti, “tabbing, warm ap-
plications, from ‘stretching .out’ fietits, ‘

Relationship. - Complementary : Bry; Cale. fluor
Tn urticaria follow with Bovista.

Jnimical: .1 pis.

Antidotes: fnacard.;  Croton.; AMeser.;  Cyprip.,
Plumbago (eczema of vulva); Graph.; Bry.; Rhod.

Compare: AKhus radicans (almost identical action) :
characteristics are, burning in tongue, tip feels..sore.
pains are often semilateral and in various parts,:efteu
remote and successive. Many symptoms are better-aeiter
a storm has thoroughly set in, especially after an -elec-
tric storm. Has pronounced vearly . aggravation.
[Laches.] Rhus diversiloba — California Poison-oak —
(antidote to Rhus; violent skin symptoms, with fright-
ful itching; much swelling of face, hands and genitals;
skin very sensitive: eczema and erysipclas, great ucrv-
ous weakness, tired from least effort; goes to sleep
from sheer exhaustion); Xerophyllum (dysmenorrhea
and skin symptoms). Compare, also: Arn.; Bapt.;
ack.; <Ars.; Hyosc.; Op. (stupefaction more pro-
found). Mimosa — Sensitive Plant — (rheumatism,
RHUS TOXICODENDRON -~- RHUS VENENATA 641

knee stiff, lancinating pains in back and limbs. Swell-
ing of ankles. Legs tremble).

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency. The 200th and
higher are antidotal to poisoning with the plant and
tincture.

RHUS VENENATA
(Poison-elder)

The skin symptoms of this species of Rhus are
most severe.

Mind.— Great melancholy; no desire to live,
gloomy.

Head. — Heavy, frontal headache; worse, walking
or stooping. Eyes nearly closed with great swelling.
Vesicular inflammation of ears. Nose red and shiny.
Face swollen.

Tongue. — Red at tip. Fissured in middle. Vesicles
on under side.

Abdomen. — Profuse, watery. white stools in morn-
ing, 4 a.M., with colicky pains; expelled with force.
Pain in hypogastrium before every stool.

Extremities. — Paralvtic drawing in right arm, es-
pecially wrist, and extending to fingers,

Skin. — Itching; relieved by hot water. Vesicles.
Erysipelas; skin dark red. Erythema nodosum, with
nightly itching and pains in long bones.

Relationship. — The California Poison-oak (Rhus
diversiloba) is identical with it. It antidotes Radium
and follows it well. Compare: Anacard.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.
42 RICINUS COMMUNIS — ROBINIA

RICINUS COMMUNIS
(Castor-oil)

Has marked action on gastro-intestinal tract. In-
creases the quantity of milk in nursing women. Vomit-
ing and purging. Languor and weakness,

Head. — Vertigo, occipital pain, congestive symp-
toms, buzzing in ears. Face pale, twitching of mouth.

Stomach. — Anorexia with great thirst, burning in
stomach, pyrosis, nausea, profuse vomiting, pit of
stomach sensitive. Mouth dry.

Abdomen. — Rumbling with contraction of  recti
muscles, colic, incessant diarrhcea with purging. Rice
water stools with cramps and chilliness.

Stool.— Loosc, incessant, painless, with painful
cramps in muscles of extremities. Anus inflamed.
Stools green, slimy, and bloody. Fever, emaciation,
somnolence.

Relationship.— Compare: Resorcin (summer com-
plaint with vomiting); Cholos terrapina (cramps of
muscles). Ars.; Verat.

Dose.— Third potency. Five drops every four
hours for increasing flow of milk; also locally a poultice
of the leaves.

ROBINIA
(Yellow Locust)

The remedy for hperchlorhydria. In cases whcre
albuminoid digestion is too rapid and starch digestion
is perverted. The gastric symptoms with the most,
pronounced acidity are well authenticated, and are the
guiding symptoms. The acidity of Robinia is accom-
panied by frontal headache. - Intensely acrid eructa-
ROBINIA — ROSA DAMASCENA 643

tions. Acrid and greenish vomiting, colic and flatu-
lence, nightly burning pains in stomach and constipa-
tion with urgent desire. — Acidity of children. Stools
and perspiration sour. Incarcerated flatus.

Head.— Dull, throbbing, frontal pain; worse,
motion and reading. Gastric headache with acid
vomiting. ‘

Stomach. — Dull, heavy aching. Nausea; sour eruc-
tations; profuse vomiting of an intensely sour fluid.
[Sulph. ac.} Great distention of stomach and bowels.
Flatulent colic. [Cham., Diosc.] Sour stools; child
smells sour.

Female.— Nymphomania. Acrid, fetid leucorrhaa,
Discharge of blood between menstrual periods. Herpes
on vagina and vulva.

Relationship. — Magnes. phos.; Arg. nit.; Orexine
tannate. (Hyperchlorhydria.)

Dose. — Third potency. Must be continued a long
time.

ROSA DAMASCENA
(Damask Rose)

Useful in the beginning of hay-fever, with involve-
ment of Eustachian tube.

Ear.— Hardness of hearing; tinnitus. Eustachian
catarrh. {Hydr.; Mere. dulc.]

Relationship. — Compare: in hay-fever: Succin. acid;
Sabad.; Euph.; Psor.; Kali hyd.; Naphth,

Dose. — J .cwer potencies.
644 RUMEX CRISPUS

RUMEX CRISPUS
(Yellow Dock)

Is characterized by pains, numerous and varied,
neither fixed nor constant anywhere. Cough caused by
an incessant tickling in the throat-pit, which tickling
ruus down to the bifurcation of the bronchial tubes.
Touching the throat-pit brings on the cough. Worse
from the least cold air; so that all cough ceases by
covering up all the body and head with the bedclothes.
Rumex diminishes the secretions of mucous membranes,
and at the same time exalts sensibility of the mucous
membranes of the larynx and trachea. Its action upon
the skin is marked, producing an intense itching. Lym-
phatics enlarged and secretions perverted,

Stomach. — Tonguc sore at edges; coated; sensa-
tion of hard substance in pit of stomach; hiccough,
pyrosis, nausea; cunnol cat meat; it causes eructations
pruritus. Jaundice after excessive use of alcoholics.
Chronic gastritis; aching pain in pit of stomach and
shooting in the chest; extends towards the throat-pit,
worse any motion or talking. Pain in feft breast after
meals; flutulence.

Respiratory.— Nose dry. Tickling in throat-pit
causes cough. Copious mucous discharge from nose and
trachea, Dry, teasing cough, preventing sleep. Aggra-
vated by pressure, talking, and especially by inspiring
cool air and at night. Thin, watery, frothy expectora-
tion by the mouthful; later, stringy and tough. Raw-
ness of larynx and trachea. Soreness behind sternum,
especially left side, in region of left shoulder. Raw
pain under clavicle. Lump in throat.

Stool. — Brown, watery, diarrhoea early in morning,
with cough, driving him out of bed. Valuable in ad-
RUMEX CRISPUS — RUTA GRAVEOLLNS 645

vanced phthisis. [Seney.; Puls.; Lycop.; Ars.]  Uch-
ing of anus, with sensation as of a stick in rectum.
Piles.

Skin. — Intense itching of skin, especially of lower
extremities: worse, exposure to cold air when undress-
ing. Urticaria; contagious prurigo.

Modalities. — Worse, in evening, from inhaling cold
air; left chest; uncovering.

Relationship. — Compare: Caust.; Sulph.;  Bell.;
Rumex acctosa (dry, unremitting short cough, and vio-
Jent pains in the bowels: uvula elongated; inflammation
of cesophagus; also cancer); Rumex obtusifolius —
Lapathum —(nose-bleed and headache following; pain
in kidneys; leucorrheea).

Dose. -— Third to sixth potency.

RUTA GRAVEOLENS
(Rue-bitterwort)

Acts upon the periosteum and cartilages, exes and
uterus. Complaints from straining fleror tendons espe-
cially, Tendency to the formation of deposits in the
periosteum, tendons, and about joints, especially wrist.
Overstrain of ocular muscles. All parts of the body
are painful, as if bruised. Sprains (after Anica).
Lameness after sprains. Jaundice. Fecling of intense
lassitude, weakness and despair. Injured bones.

Head. — Pain as from a nail; after excessive in-
toxicating drinks. Periosteum sore. Epistaxis.

Eyes. — Eye-strain followed by headache. Eyes red,
hot, and painful from sewing or reading fine print.
[Nat. mur.; Arg. nit.] Disturbances of accommodation.
Weary pain while reading. Presstire deep in orbits.
646 RUTA GRAVEOLENS

Tarsal cartilage feels bruised. Pressure over eye-
brow. Asthenopia.

Stomach. — Gastralgia of aching, gnawing character.

Urinary. — Pressure in neck of bladder after uri-
nating; painful closure. [Apis.] Constant urging to
urinate, feels bladder full.

Rectum, — Difficult feces, evacuated only with strain-
ing. Constipation, alternating with mucous, frothy
stools; discharge of blood with stool. When sitting,
tearing stitches in rectum. Carcinoma affecting lower
bowel. Prolapsus ani every time the bowels move,
after confinement. Frequent, unsuccessful urging to
stool. Protrusion of rectum when stooping.

Respiratory. — Cough with copious, thick, yellow
expectoration; chest feels weak. Painful spot on ster-
num; short breath with tightness of chest.

Extremities, — Spine and limbs feel bruised. Smail
of back and loins pain. Legs give out on rising from
a chair, hips and thighs so weak, [Phos.; Con.] Con-
traction of fingers. Pain and stiffness in wrists and
hands. Ganglia. Sciatica; worse, lying down at night;
pain from back down hips and thighs. Hamstrings feel
shortened. [Graph.] Tendons sore. Aching pain in
tendo-Achilles. Thighs pain when stretching the limbs.
Pain in bones of feet and ankles. “ Great restlessness.

Modalities. — Worse, lying down, from cold, wet
weather.

Relationship. —- Compare: Jaborundi; Phyt.; Rhus;
Sil.; Arn,

Antidote: Camph.

Complementary: Calc. phos.

Dose. — First to sixth potency. Locally, the tinc-
ture for ganglia and as a lotion for the eyes.
646 RUTA GRAVEOLENS

Tarsal cartilage feels bruised. Pressure over eye-
brow. Asthenopia.

Stomach. — Gastralgia of aching, gnawing character.

Urinary. — Pressure in neck of bladder after uri-
nating; painful closure. [Apis.] Constant urging to
urinate, feels bladder full.

Rectum, — Difficult feces, evacuated only with strain-
ing. Constipation, alternating with mucous, frothy
stools; discharge of blood with stool. When sitting,
tearing stitches in rectum. Carcinoma affecting lower
bowel. Prolapsus ani every time the bowels move,
after confinement. Frequent, unsuccessful urging to
stool. Protrusion of rectum when stooping.

Respiratory. — Cough with copious, thick, yellow
expectoration; chest feels weak. Painful spot on ster-
num; short breath with tightness of chest.

Extremities, — Spine and limbs feel bruised. Smail
of back and loins pain. Legs give out on rising from
a chair, hips and thighs so weak, [Phos.; Con.] Con-
traction of fingers. Pain and stiffness in wrists and
hands. Ganglia. Sciatica; worse, lying down at night;
pain from back down hips and thighs. Hamstrings feel
shortened. [Graph.] Tendons sore. Aching pain in
tendo-Achilles. Thighs pain when stretching the limbs.
Pain in bones of feet and ankles. “ Great restlessness.

Modalities. — Worse, lying down, from cold, wet
weather.

Relationship. —- Compare: Jaborundi; Phyt.; Rhus;
Sil.; Arn,

Antidote: Camph.

Complementary: Calc. phos.

Dose. — First to sixth potency. Locally, the tinc-
ture for ganglia and as a lotion for the eyes.
SABADILLA 647

SABADILLA
(Cevadilla Seed. Asagrza Officinalis)

Action on mucous membrane of the nose and the
lachrymal glands, producing coryza and symptoms like
hay-fever, which have been utilized homceopathically.
Ascarides, with reflex symptoms (nymphomania; con-
vulsive symptoms). Children’s diarrhoea with constant
cutting pains.

Mind. — Nervous, timid, easily startled. Has er-
roreous notions about himself. Imagines that he is
very sick; that parts are shrunken; that slie is preg-
nant; that she has cancer; delirium during intermit-
tents.

Head.—- Vertigo with sensation as though all
things were turning around each other, accompanied by
blackness before eyes and sensation of fainting. Dullness
and oppression. Oversensitiveness to odors. Thinking
produces headache and sleeplessness. Eyclids red, burn-
ing. Lachrymation. Difficult hearing.

Nose.— Spasmodic sneezing, with running nose.
Coryza, with severe frontal pains and redness of eyes
and lachrymation. Copious, watery, nasal discharge.

Throat. — Sore; begins on left side. [Lach.] Much
tough phlegm. Sensation of a skin hanging loosely;
must swallow over it. Warm food and drink relieve.
Empty swallowing most painful. Dry fauces and throat.
Sensation of a lump in throat with constant necessity
to swallow. Chronic sore throat; worse, from cold air.

Stomach.— Spasmodic pain in stomach with dry
cough and difficult breathing. No thirst. Loathing for
strong food. Canine appetite for sweets and farinaceous
food. Pyrosis; copious salivation. Cold, empty feel-
ing in stomach. Desire for hot things. Sweetish taste.
648 SABADITLA — SABAL SERRULATA

Female. — Menscs too late; come by fits and starts.
Intermit [Kreos.; Puls.] (due to transient and localized
congestion of womb alternating with chronic anemic
state).

Fever. — (hill predominates; from below upwards.
Heat in head and face; hands and feet icy cold, with
chill. Lachrymation during paroxysm. Thirstless.

Extremities. — Cracking of skin under and beneath
toes; inflammation under toe-nails,

Skin.— Dry, like parchment. Horny, deformed,
thickened nails. Hot, burning, creeping, crawling sen-
sation. Itching in anus.

Modalities. -— ]]orse, cold and cold drinks, full moon.
Petter, warm food and drink, wrapped up.

Relationship.— Complementary: Sepia. Compare:
Veratrina (is alkaloid of Sahadilla, nof of Veratrum,
locally in neuralgias, and for removal of dropsy. Five
grains to two drams Lanolm, rubbed on inside of thighs,
causes diuresis). Colch.; Nur, «lrundo and Pollatm
vhay-fever).

Autidotes: Puls.; Lycop.; Coninm,; Lach.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

SABAL SERRULATA
(Saw Palmetto)

General and sexual debility. Promotes nutrition and
tissue building. Head, stomach, and ovarian symptoms
marked. Of unquestioned value in prostatic enlaige-
ment, epididymitis, and urinary difficulties. Acts on
membrano-prostatic portion of urethra. TIritis, with
prostatic trouble. [’aluahle for undeveloped mammary
glands, Fear of going to sleep. Languor, apathy and
‘Whdifference.
SARAL SERRULATA — SABINA 649

Head. — Confused, full; dislikes sympathy. Vertigo,
with headache. Neuralgia in feeble patients. Pain
runs up from nose and centers in forehead.

Stomach. — Belching and acidity. Desire for milk.
[Rhus; Apis.]

Urinary. — Constant desire to pass water at night.
Enuresis; paresis of sphincter vesice. Chronic gonor-
rhea. Difficult urination. ‘

Male, — Prostatic troubles; enlargement; discharge
of prostatic fluid. Wasting of testes and loss of sexual
power. Coitus painful at the time of emission. Sexual
neurotics,

Female.— Ovaries tender and enlarged; breasts
shrivel. [Jod.; Kali tod.} Young female neurotics;
suppressed or perverted sexual inclination.

Respiratory. — Copious expectoration, with catarrh
of nose. Chronic brenchitis. [Stann.; Hep.]

Relationship. — Compare: Phosph. ac.; Stigmata
maydis; Santal.; Apis. In prostatic symptoms: Fern
pic.; Thuja; Picric acid (more sexual erethism).
Populus tremul.; (prostatic enlargement with cystitis).

Dose. — Mother tincture, ten to thirty drops.

SABINA
(Savine)

Has a special action on the uterus; also upon serous
and fibrous membranes; hence its use in gout. Pain
from sacrum to the pubis. Hamorrhages, where blood
ts fluid and clots together. Tendency to miscarriage,
especially at third month. Violent pulsations; wants
windows open.

Mind. — Music is intolerable, produces nervousness.
[Natr. ¢.]
650 SABINA

Head. — Vertigo with suppressed menses. Burst-
ing headache, suddenly coming and going slowly. Rush
of blood to head and face. Drawing pains in masseter
muscles. Teeth ache when chewing.

Stomach. — Heartburn. Desire for lemonade. Bit-
ter taste. [Rhus.] Lancinating pain from pit of stomach
across back. .

Abdomen. — Bearing-down, constrictive pain. Colic,
mostly in hypogastric region. Tympanitic distention.

Rectum. — Sense of fullness. Constipation. Pain
from back to pubis. Hemorrhoids, with bright red
blood ; bleed copiously.

Urine. — Burning and throbbing in region of kid-
neys. Bloody urine; much urging. Bladder inflamed
with throbbing all over. Inflammation of urethra.

Male.— Inflammatory gonorrhoea, with pus-like
discharge. Sycotic evcrescences. Burning, sore pain in
glans. Prepuce painful with difficulty in retracting it.
Increased desire.

Female. -- Menses profuse, bright. Uterine pains ex-
tend into thighs. Threatened miscarriage. Sexual de-
sire increased. Leucorrhoea after menses, corrosive, of-
fensive. Discharge of blood between periods. with sex-
ual excitement. [.4mbr.] Retained placenta; intense
after-pains. Menorrhagia in women who aborted read-
ily. Inflammation of ovaries and uterus after abor-
tion. Promotes expulsion of moles from uterus.
[Canth.] Pain from sacrum to pubis, and from below
upwards shooting up the vagina. Hemorrhage; partly
clotted; worse frum least motion. Atony of uterus.

Back.— Pain between sacrum and pubis from one
bone to another. Paralytic pain in small of back.

Extremities. — Bruised pains in anterior portion of
SABINA — SACCHARUM OFFICINALE 651

thighs. Shooting in heels and metatarsal bones. Arth-
ritic pain in joints. Gout; worse, in heated room. Red,
shining swelling. Gouty nodosities. [Ammon. phos.]

Skin. — Fig-warts, with intolerable itching and
burning. Exuberant granulations. [Thuj.; Nit. ec.J
Warts. Black pores in skin.

Modalities. — Worse, from least motion, heat, warm
air. Better, in cool fresh air.

Relationship. — Complementary: Thuja.

Compare: Rosmarinus (menses too early; violent
pains followed by uterine hemorrhage. Head heavy,
drowsy. Chilly with icy coldness of lower extremities
without thirst, followed by heat. Memory deficient).
Croc.; Calc.; Triil.; Ipec.; Millef.; Erig.

Antidote: Puls.

Dose. — Locally, for warts, tincture. Internally,
third to thirtieth potency.

SACCHARUM OFFICINALE
(Cane-sugar)

Sugar is an antiseptic. Combats infection and putre-
faction; has a solvent action on fibrin and stimulates
secretion by the intense osmotic changes induced, thus
rinsing out the wound with serum from within out-
ward, favoring healing. Leg, ylcers.

Sugar must be considered a sustainer and developer
of the musculature of the heart and hence useful in
failure of compensation and a variety of cardio-vas-
cular troubles. Acts as a nutrient and tonic, in wast-
ing disorders, anemia, neurasthenia, etc., increasing
weight and power.

Opacity _ of cornea. Dim sight, Acidity and anal
itching. Cold expectoration. Myocardial degeneration.
652 SACCHARUM OFFICINALE — SALAGINELLA APUS

Fat, bloated, large-limbed children, who are cross,
peevish, whining; capricious; want dainty things,
tidbits, and refuse substantial food. (Edema of feet.

Relationship. — Compare: Saccharum lactis (diure-
sis; amblyopia; cold pains, as if produced by finé, icy
cold needle with tingling, as if frost bitten; great phys-
ical exhaustion) ; Calc.; Arg. nit.; Caust.

Dose. — Thirtieth potency and higher. Locally in
gangrene. One ounce of lump sugar morning and evet-
ing valuable adjunct in the treatment of obstinate cases
of heart failure due to deficient heart muscle without
valvular lesion.

Sugar as an oxytocic has its most suitable applica-
tion towards the end of labor when there is no me-
chanical obstruction and delay is due to uterine inertia.
25 grammes dissolved in water, several times every half
hour,

Compare: Saccharin (hinders both the salivary and
peptic ferment actions with consequent dyspepsia. Prof.
Lewin believes its action to be on the secretory cells
themselves and it has caused pain (right hypogastrium),
loss of appetite, diarrhoea and wasting).

SALAGINELLA APUS
(Snake-moss)

Said to be a perfect antidote to the bites of snakes
and spiders. About half a diam of the moss is macer-
ated with one ounce of milk. This is drunk and also
bound upen the wound.

Compare: Golondrina; Cedron; Indigo,
SALICYLICUM ACIDUM 653

SALICYLICUM ACIDUM
(Salicyclic Acid)

The symptoms pvint to its use in rheumatism, dys-
pepsia, and AMMeniere’s discase. Prostration after in-
fluenza, Uematuria.

Head. — Vertigo: tendency to fall to Jeft side. Head-
ache; coniusion in head on rising suddenly. Incipient
coryza. Piercing pain in temples.

Eyes. — Retinal hemorrhage. Retinitis after in-
fluenza, also albuminuric,

Ears. — Roaring and ringing in cars. Deafness, with
vertigo.

Throat. --- Sure, red and swollen. Pharyngitis; swal-
lowing difficult.

Stomach. — Canker sores, with burning soreness and
fetid breath. Flatulence; hot, sour belching. Vutrid
fermentation. Fermentative dyspepsia. Tongue pur-
plish, leaden-colored.

Stools. —- Putrid diarrhoea; stools like green frog’s
spawn. [Afagu. carb.]

Extremities. — Knees swollen and painful. Acute
articular rheumatism; worse, touch and motion, pro-
tuse sweat. Pain shifts. Sciatica, burning pain; worse
at night. Copious foot-sweat.

Skin.— Itching vesicles and pustules; better by
scratching. Sweat without sleep. Urticaria. Hot and
burning skin. Purpura. Herpes zoster.

Relationship. — Compare: Salol (rheumatic pain in
joints, with soreness and stiffness, headache over eyes;
urine violet-smelling) ; Colch.; China; Lact. ac.

Dose — Third decimal trituration.
654 SALIX NIGRA — SALVIA OFFICINALIS

SALIX NIGRA
(Pussy-willow)

Controls genital irritability. Moderate sexual pas-
sion. In acute gonorrhea, with much erotic trouble;
chordee. After masturbation ; spermatorrhcea,

Face. — Red, swollen, especially the end of nose —
eyes bloodshot and sore to touch and on motion. Roots
of hair hurt.

Female. — Before and during menses much nervous
disturbance, pain in ovaries; difficult menstruation,

Male. — Painful movement of the testicles.

Back.— Pain across sacral and lumbar region. Un-
able to step out quickly.

Relationship. — Compare: Yohimbin.; Canth.

Dose. — Materia! doses of the tincture, thirty drops.

SALVIA OFFICINALIS
(Sage)

Of use in phthisis with night-sweats and suffocating
tickling cough. Galactorrhoea. Exerts a tonic influence
on the skin.

Respiratory. — Tickling cough, especially in consump-
tion.

Skin. — Soft, relaxed, with enfeebled circulation and
cold extremities. Colliquative perspiration.

Relationship, — Compare: Chrysanthemum Leucan-
themum — Ox-eye Daisy. (Insomnia and night-sweats.
For colliquative sweating and hyperzsthesia of nervous
system. Material doses of tincture.) Phelland.;
Tuterc.; Salvia sclerata (tonic influence on nervous
system; dose, teaspoonful to one pint hot water, as in-
SALVIA OFFICINALIS — SAMBUCUS NIGRA 655

halent and , for sponging). Rubia tinctorum — Madder
— (Anemia; undernourished conditions; splenic
anemia. Dose, 10 drops of tincture).

Dose. — Tincture, in twenty-drop doses, in a little
water. The effects manifest themselves quickly two
hours after taking a dose, and they persist for from
two to six days.

SAMBUCUS NIGRA
(Elder)

Acts especially on the respiratory organs. Dry coryza
of infants, snuffles, oedematous swellings. Profuse
sweat accompanies many affections,

Mind. -— Sees images when shutting eyes. Constant
fretfulness. Very easily frightened. Fright followed
by suffocative attacks

Face. — Turns blue with cough. Red, burning spots
on cheeks. Heat and perspiration of face.

Abdomen. — Colic, with nausea and flatulence; fre-
quent watery, slimy stools.

Urine. — Profuse urine with dry heat of skin. Fre-
quent micturition, with scanty urine. Acute nephritis;
dropsical symptoms, with vomiting.

Respiratory. — Chest oppressed with pressure in
stomach, and nausea. Hoarseness with tenacious mucus
in larynx. Paroxysmal, suffocative cough, coming on
about midnight, with crying and dyspnea. Spasmodic
croup. Dry coryza. Swniffes of infants; nose dry and
obstructed. Loose choking cough. When nursing child
must let go of nipple, nose blocked up, cannot breathe.
Child awakes suddenly, nearly suffocating, sits up, turns
blue. Cannot expire. ([Meph.]  Millar’s asthma.
JArum drac.}
656 SAMBUCUS NIGRA — SANGUINARIA

Extremities. -—— Hands turn blue. CEdemaggus swell-
ing in legs, insteps, and feet. Feet icy cold. Bebilitat-
ing night-sweats. [SYalvia; Acct. ac.)

Fever. — Dry heat while sleeping. Dreads uncover-
ing. Profuse sweat over entire body during waking
hours. Yry, deep cough precedes the fever paroxysm.

Skin. - - Dry heat of skin during sleep. Bloated and
swollen. general dropsy i profuse sweat on waking,

Modak:ties. — Forsc, sleep, during rest, after eating
fruit. Peller, sitting up in bed, motion.

Relationship.-— Compare: IJpee., Mepih.: Opium
Sambucus Canadensis (great value in dropsies, large
doses required — fluid extract, 4% to 1 teaspoonful three
times daily).

Antidotes: Ars.. Camph,.

Dose. — Tincture, to siath potency.

SANGUINARIA
(Blood Root)

ls a right-sided remedy pre-eminently. and affect»
chiefly the mucous membranes, especially of the res-
piratory tract. Jt has marked vaso-motor disturbances,
as seen in the circumscribed redness of the cheeks,
lashes of heat, determination of blood to head and
chest, distention of temporal veins, burning in palms
and soles, and has been found very applicable to ch-
macteric disorders. Burning sensations, like {iui hot
water. Phthisis. Sudden stopping of catarrh of res-
firatory tract followed by diarrhaa.

Head, — Worse right cide, sun headache. Pericdical
sick headache; pain begins: in occiput, spreads upwards,
and settles over eves, especially right. T'vins and tem-
656 SAMBUCUS NIGRA — SANGUINARIA

Extremities. -—— Hands turn blue. CEdemaggus swell-
ing in legs, insteps, and feet. Feet icy cold. Bebilitat-
ing night-sweats. [SYalvia; Acct. ac.)

Fever. — Dry heat while sleeping. Dreads uncover-
ing. Profuse sweat over entire body during waking
hours. Yry, deep cough precedes the fever paroxysm.

Skin. - - Dry heat of skin during sleep. Bloated and
swollen. general dropsy i profuse sweat on waking,

Modak:ties. — Forsc, sleep, during rest, after eating
fruit. Peller, sitting up in bed, motion.

Relationship.-— Compare: IJpee., Mepih.: Opium
Sambucus Canadensis (great value in dropsies, large
doses required — fluid extract, 4% to 1 teaspoonful three
times daily).

Antidotes: Ars.. Camph,.

Dose. — Tincture, to siath potency.

SANGUINARIA
(Blood Root)

ls a right-sided remedy pre-eminently. and affect»
chiefly the mucous membranes, especially of the res-
piratory tract. Jt has marked vaso-motor disturbances,
as seen in the circumscribed redness of the cheeks,
lashes of heat, determination of blood to head and
chest, distention of temporal veins, burning in palms
and soles, and has been found very applicable to ch-
macteric disorders. Burning sensations, like {iui hot
water. Phthisis. Sudden stopping of catarrh of res-
firatory tract followed by diarrhaa.

Head, — Worse right cide, sun headache. Pericdical
sick headache; pain begins: in occiput, spreads upwards,
and settles over eves, especially right. T'vins and tem-
SANGUINARIA 657

ples are distended. (Arnica, China) Pain better lying
down and sleep. Headaches return at climacteric; every
seventh day. [Sulph.; Sabad.] Pain in small spot over
upper left parietal bone. Burning in eyes. Pain in the
back of head “like a flash of lightning.”

Face. — Flushed. Neuralgia; pain extends in all di-
rections from upper jaw. Redness and burning of
cheeks. Hectic flush. Fullness and tenderness behind
angle of jaws.

Nose. — Hay-fever. Ozana, with profuse, offensive
yellowish discharges. Nasal polypi. Coryza, followed
hy diarrhea. Chronic rhinitis; membrane dry and con-
gested.

Ears.— Burning in ears. Earache with headache.
Humming and roaring. Aural polypus.

Throat. — Swollen; worse, right side. Dry and con-
stricted. Ulceration of mouth and fauces, with dry,
burning sensation. Tongue white; feels scalded. Ton-
sillitis,

Stomach. — Aversion to butter. Craving for piquant
things. Unquenchable thirst. Burning, vomiting. Nau-
sea, with salivation. Sinking, faint all-gone feeling.
[Phos.; Sep.] Spitting up of bile; gastro-duodenal
catarrh.

Abdomen. —- Diarrhea as coryza improves. Pain
over region of liver. Diarrhoea; bilious, liquid, gushing
stool. [Nat. sulph.; Lycop.] Cancer of rectum.

Female. — Leucorrheea fetid, corrosive. Menses of-
fensive, profuse. Soreness of breasts. Uterine polypi.
Before menses, itching of axilla. Climacteric disorders.
[Sulph.; Lach.]

Respiratory.— (Edema of larynx. Trachea sore.
Aphonia. Cough uf gastric origin; relieved by eructa-
658 SANGUINARIA

tion. Cough, with burning pain in chest; worse, right
side. Sputum tough, rust-colored, offensive, almost im-
possible to raise. Spasmodic cough after influenza and
after whooping-cough. Cough returns with every fresh
cold. Tickling behind sternum, causes a constant hack-
ing cough; worse at night on lying down. Must sit up
in bed. Severe soreness under right nipple. Hemopty-
sis from suppressed menses. Severe dyspnea and con-
striction of chest. Offensive breath and expectoration.
Burning in chest as of hot steam from chest to ab-
domen. Fibroid phthisis. Pneumonia; better, lying on
back. Asthma with stomach disorders. [Nux.] Val-
vular disease with lung development, phosphates in
urine and loss of flesh. Sudden stoppage of catarrh
of air passages brings on diarrheea.

Extremities. — Rheumatism of right shoulder and
nape of neck. [Fluor. ac.; Urt.] Burning in soles
and palms. Rheumatic pains in places least covered’ by
flesh; not in joints. Toes and soles of feet burn. Right-
sided neuritis; better touching the part.

Skin. — Antidotes: Rhus poisoning. Red, blotchy
eruptions; worse in spring. Burning and itching; worse
by heat. Acne, with scanty menses. [Eugvn.; Bellis;
Berb, aquif.] Circumscribed red spots over malar
bones.

Modalities. — Worse, sweets, right side, motion, touch.
Better. acids, sleep, darkness.
Relationship. — Complementary: Tart. em.

Compare: Justicia (bronchial catarrh, coryza, hoarse-
ness; oversensitive). Bell.; Iris; Melil.; Lach.; Ferr.;
Op.

» Dose. — Tincture in headaches; sixth potency in rheu-
matism.
SANGUINARINA NITRICA 659

SANGUINARINA NITRICA
(Nitrate of Sanguinarine)

Is of use in polypus of the nose. Acute and chronic
catarrh. Acute pharyngitis. (Wyethia) Smarting and
burning in throat and chest especially under sternum.
Influenza. Lachrymation, pains in eyes and head, sore
scalp; sense of obstruction. Chronic follicular pharyn-
gitis.

Nose. — Feels obstructed. Prejuse, watery mucus,
with burning pain. Enlarged turbinates at beginning
of hypertrophic process. Secretion scant, tendency to
dryness. Small crusts which bleed when removed.
Post-nasal secretions adherent to nasopharynx, dis-
lodged with difficulty. Dry and burning nostrils; watery
mucus, with pressure over root of nose. Nostrils
plugged with thick, yellow, bloody mucus. Sneezing.
Rawness and soreness in posterior nares.

Throat. — Rough, dry, constricted, burning. Right
tonsil sore, swallowing difficult.

Mouth. — Ulceration on the side of the tongue.

Respiratory. — Short, hacking cough, with expectora-
tion of thick, yellow, sweetish mucus. Pressure behind
center of sternum. Dryness and burning in throat and
bronchi. Tickling cough. Chronic nasal, laryngeal, and
bronchial catarrh. Voice altered, deep, hoarse.

Relationship.—Compare: Sanguin. tartaricum (ex-
ophthalmos; mydriasis; dim vision); Arum triph.;
Psorin.; Kal. bich.

Dose. — Third trituration.
660 SANICULA (AQuA)

SANICULA (AQUA)
(The Water of Sanicula Springs, Ottawa, II1.)

Has been found a useful remedy in enuresis, seasick-
ness, constipation, etc. Rickets.

Head.—Dread of downward motion. [Borax] Pro-
fuse sweat on occiput and in nape of neck, during sleep.
[Calc.; Sil.] Photophobia. Lachrymation in cold air
or from cold application. Profuse scaly dandruff.
Soreness behind ears.

Throat. — Thick, ropy, tenacious mucus.

Mouth. — Tongue large, flabby, burning; must pro-
trude it to keep cool. Ringworm on tongue.

Stomach. — Nausea and vomiting from car-riding.
Thirst; drink little and often. [Ars.; Chin.] Is vom-
ited as soon as it reaches the stomach.

Rectum. -— Stools Jarge and painful. Pain in whole
perineum. No desire until a large accumulation. After
great straining only partially expelled, recedes, crum-
bles at verge of anus. [Jfag. mur.] Very offensive
odor. Excoriation of skin about anus, perineum, and
genitals, Diarrhoea; changeable in character and color;
after eating.

Female. — Bearing-down, as if contents of pelvis
would escape; better, rest. Desire to support parts.
Soreness of uterus. Leucorrhcea with odor of fish-
brine or old cheese. [Hepur] Vagina feels large.

Back. — Dislocated feeling in sacrum and better lying
on right side.

Extremities. — Burning of soles of feet. [Stlph.;
Lach.| Offensive foot-sweat. [Sil.; Fsor.] Cold,
clammy sweat of extremities.

Skin. — Dirty, greasy, hrownish, wrinkled. Eczema,
fissured hands and fingers. [Petrol.; Graph.]

Modalities. —- Worse, moving arms backward.
SANICULA (AQUA) — SANTONINUM — SAPONARIA 661

Relationship. — Compare: .{brot.: Alum.; Cale.; Sil.;
Sulph, Must not be confounded with the Sanicle (pool-
root or wood march), also called Sanicula. This is used
in various nervous affections, resembling Valeriana.
It is used as a vulnerary, resolvent for sanguineous
extravasations, and as an astringent. Has not been
proved.

Dose. — Thirtieth potency.

SANTONINUM
(Santonin)

The eye symptoms and those of the urinary tract
are most prominent. It is of unquestioned value in
the treatment of worm diseases. Ascaris lumbricoides.
Night cough of children. Cunronic cystitis.

Head. — Occipital headache, with chromatic hallu-
cinations, Itching of rose. Bores into nostrils.

Eyes. — Sudden dimness of sight. Color blindness;
Nanthopsia. Strabismus due to worms.

Mouth. — Tongue deep-red. Grinding of teeth. Nau-
sea; better after eating. Choking feeling.

Urinary. — Urine greenish. Incontinence and dysuria.
Enuresis. Feeling of fullness in bladder.

Relationship.— Compare: Cina; Teucr.; Napth.;
Nat. phos.; Spigel. '

Dose. — Second to third trituration.

SAPONARIA
(Soap Root)

Of great use in the treatment of acute colds, coryza,
sore throat, etc. Will often “break up” a cold,

Mind. — Utter indifference to pain or possible death.
Apathetic, depressed, with sleepiness.
662 SAPONARIA — SARCOLACTIC ACID

Head. — Stitching pain, supraorbital; worse, left side,
evening, motion. Throbbing over orbits. Congestion
to head; tired feeling in nape. Coryza. Sensation of
drunkenness with constant endeavor to go left-wards.
Left-sided trigeminal neuralgia, especially supraorbital.
Violent eye pains.

Eyes. — Hot stitches deep in eyeball. Ciliary neu-
ralgia; worse, left side. Photophobia. Exophthalmos,
worse reading and writing. Increased intraocular
pressure.

Stomach. — Difficult swallowing. Nausea, heartburn;
full feeling not relieved by eructation.

Heart.— Impulse weak; pulse less frequent. Palpi-
tation with anxiety. Peculiar anxious suggestive ap-
preciation of heart’s action.

Modalities. — Worse, at night, mental exertion, left
side.

Relationship.- Compare: Saponin. (Tired, indif-
ferent. Pain in left temple, eye, photophobia, hot
stitches deep in eye. Fifth nerve affections. Migraine.
Much pain before the menstrual flow; severe sore
throat, worse right side; tonsils swollen, worse in warm
room.)

Compare, also: Verbasc.; Coccul. (both containing
Saponin). Quillaya; Senega; Grindel. (contains Sa-
ponin).

SARCOLACTIC ACID

Is apparently formed in muscle tissue during the
stage of muscle exhaustion. Differs from ordinary
Lactic acid in its relation to polarized light.

lt represents a much broader and more profoundly
acting drug and its pathogenesis is quite dissimilar from
the normal acid. Proved by Wm. B. Griggs, M. D.,
who found it of great: value in the most violent form of
SARCOLACTIC ACID —~ SARRACENIA PURPUREA 663

Epidemic influenza, especially with violent vomiting and
retching and greatest prostration, when Arsenic had
failed. Spinal neurasthenia, muscular weakness, dysp-
neea with myocardia! weakness.

General Symptoms.—Tired feeling with muscular
prostration, worse any exertion. Sore feeling all over,
worse in afternoon. Restless at night. Difficulty in
getting to sleep. Tired feeling in morning on getting up.

Throat. —- Constriction in pharynx. Sore throat with
tightness in naso-pharynx.

Stomach. — Nausea. Uncontrollable vomiting even of
water followed by extreme weakness.

Back and Extremities. —- Tired feeling in back and
neck and shoulders, Paralytic weakness. Wrist tires
easily from writing. Extreme weakness from climbing
stairs. Stiffness of thigh and calves. Arms feel as if
no strength in them.

Dose. — Sixth to 30th potency.

SARRACENIA PURPUREA
(Pitcher-plant)

A remedy for variola. Visual disorders. Congestion
to head, with irregular heart action. Chlorosis,

Eyes. — Photophobia. Eyes feel swollen and sore.
Pain in orbits. Black objects move with the eye.

Stomach. — Hungry all the time, even after a meal.
Sleepy during meals. Copious, painful vomiting.

Extremities. — Limbs weak ; bruised pain in knees and
hip-joints. Bones in arm pain. Weak between shoul-
ders.

Skin. — Variola, aborts the disease, arrests pustula-
tion.

Relationship.— Compare: Tartar. em.; Variol.;
Maland.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency.
664 SARSAPARILLA

SARSAPARILLA
(Smilax)

Eruptions following vaccinations; boils, and eczema.
Urinary symptoms well marked.

Mind. — Despondent, sensitive, easily offended, ill
humored and taciturn.

Head. — Pains cause depression. Shooting pain from
above right temporal region. Pains from occiput to
eyes. Words reverberate in ear to the root of nose.
Periosteal pains due to venereal disease. Influenza.
Scalp sensitive. Eruption on face and upper lip. Moist
eruption on scalp. Crusta lactea beginning in face.

Mouth. — Tongue white; aphtha; salivation; metallic
taste; no thirst. Fetid breath.

Abdomen. — Rumbling and fermentation. Colic and
backache at same time. Much flatus: cholera infantum.

Urinary. — Urine scanty, slimy, flaky, sandy, bloody.
Gravel. Renal colic. Severe pain at conclusion of
urination. Urine dribbles while sitting. Bladder dis-
tended and tender. Child screams before and while
passing urine. Sand on diaper. Renal colic and dysuria
in infants. Pain from right tidney downward. Tenes-
mus of bladder; urine passes in thin, feeble stream.
Pain at meatus,

Male. — Bloody, seminal emissions, Intolerable stench
on genitals, Herpetic eruption on genitals. Itching on
scrotum and perineum. Syphilis; squamous eruption
and bone pains.

Female. — Nipples small, withered, retracted. Be-
flere menstruation, itching and humid eruption of fore-
dgad. Menses late and scanty. Moist eruption in right

a@roin before menses.

Skin. — Emaciated, shriveled, lies in folds [Abrot.,

whanic.], dry, flabby. Herpetic eruptions; ulcers. Kash
SARSAPARILLA — SCROPHULARIA NODOSA 665

from exposure to open air: dry, itching; comcs on in
Spring; becomes crusty. Rhagades; skin cracked on
hands and feet. Skin hard, indurated.

Extremities. — Paralytic, tearing pains. Trembling
of hands and feet. Burning on sides of fingers and
toes. Onychia, ulceration around ends of fingers, cut-
ting sensation under nails. Rheumatism, bone pains;
worse at night. Deep rhagades on fingers and toes;
burn under nails. Tetter on hands; ulceration around
ends of fingers, [Psorin.] Cutting sensation under
nails. [Petrol.} Rheumatic pains after gonorrhea.

Modalities. — Worse, dampness at night, after urinat-
ing, when yawning, in spring, before menses.

Relationship. — Complementary: Merc.; Sep.

Compare: Berb.; Lycop.; Nat. m.; Petrol.; Sassafras;
Saururus — Lizard’s tail— (Irritation of kidneys, blad-
der,*prostate and urinary passages. Painful and diffi-
cult micturition; cystitis with strangury). Cucurbita
cttrellus — Watermelon. (Infusion of the seed acts
promptly in painful urination with constriction and
backache, relieves pain and stimulates flow.)

Antidote: Bell.

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

SCROPHULARIA NODOSA
(Knotted Figwort)

A powerful medicine whenever enlarged glands are
present. Hodgkin’s disease.

A valuable skin remedy. Has a specific affinity for
the breast: very useful in the dissipation of breast
tumors. Eczema of the ear. Pruritus vagine. Lupoid
ulceration. Scrofulous swellings. [Cistus] Painful
hemorrhoids. Tubercular testis. Ephithelioma. No-
dosities in the breasts, [Scirrhinum.] Pain in all flexor
muscles.
666 SCROPHULABIA NOD. — SCUTELLARIA LAT.

Head. — Vertigo greater when standing; drowsiness;
pain from forehead to back of head. Eczema behind
ear. Crusta lactea.

Eyes. — Distressing photophobia. [Conium.] Spots
before eyes. Stitches in eyebrow. Sore eyeballs.

Ears. — Inflammation about auricle. Deep ulcerated
auricle. Eczema around ear.

Abdomen. — Pain in liver on pressure. Colic below
navel. Pain in sigmoid flexure and rectum. Painful,
bleeding, protruding piles.

Respiratory. — Violent dyspnea, oppression of chest
with trembling. Pain about bifurcation of trachea.
Asthma in scrofulous patients,

Skin. — Prickling itching, worse back of hand.

Sleep. — Great drowsiness; in morning and before
and after meals with weariness.

Modalities. — Worse lying on right side.

Compare: Lobel. erinus; Ruta; Carcinosin; Conium;
Asterias.

Dose. — Tincture and first potency.

SCUTELLARIA LATERIFOLIA
(Skullcap)

This is a nervous sedative, where nervous fear pre-
dominates. Cardiac irritability. Chorea. Nervous ir-
ritation and spasms cf children, during dentition.
Twitching of muscles. ‘

Mental. — Fear of some calamity. Inability to fix at-
tention. [thus.] Confusion.

Head. — Dull, frontal headache. Eyes feel pressed
outwards. Flushed face. Restless sleep and frightful
dreams. Must move about. Night terrors. Migraine;
Worse, over right eye; aching in eyeballs. Explosive
headaches of school teachers with frequent urination;
headaches in front and base of brain.
666 SCROPHULABIA NOD. — SCUTELLARIA LAT.

Head. — Vertigo greater when standing; drowsiness;
pain from forehead to back of head. Eczema behind
ear. Crusta lactea.

Eyes. — Distressing photophobia. [Conium.] Spots
before eyes. Stitches in eyebrow. Sore eyeballs.

Ears. — Inflammation about auricle. Deep ulcerated
auricle. Eczema around ear.

Abdomen. — Pain in liver on pressure. Colic below
navel. Pain in sigmoid flexure and rectum. Painful,
bleeding, protruding piles.

Respiratory. — Violent dyspnea, oppression of chest
with trembling. Pain about bifurcation of trachea.
Asthma in scrofulous patients,

Skin. — Prickling itching, worse back of hand.

Sleep. — Great drowsiness; in morning and before
and after meals with weariness.

Modalities. — Worse lying on right side.

Compare: Lobel. erinus; Ruta; Carcinosin; Conium;
Asterias.

Dose. — Tincture and first potency.

SCUTELLARIA LATERIFOLIA
(Skullcap)

This is a nervous sedative, where nervous fear pre-
dominates. Cardiac irritability. Chorea. Nervous ir-
ritation and spasms cf children, during dentition.
Twitching of muscles. ‘

Mental. — Fear of some calamity. Inability to fix at-
tention. [thus.] Confusion.

Head. — Dull, frontal headache. Eyes feel pressed
outwards. Flushed face. Restless sleep and frightful
dreams. Must move about. Night terrors. Migraine;
Worse, over right eye; aching in eyeballs. Explosive
headaches of school teachers with frequent urination;
headaches in front and base of brain.
SCUTELLARIA LAT. —-SECALE CORNUTUM 667

Stomach. — Nausea; sour eructations; hiccough; pain
and distress.

Abdomen. — Gas, fullness and distention, colicky pain
and uneasiness. Light colored diarrhcea,

Male, — Seminal emissions and impotency, with fear
of never being better.

Sleep. —- Night-terrors; sleeplessness; sudden wake-
fulness; frightful dreams.

Extremities. — Twitchings of muscles; must be mov-
ing. Chorea. Tremors. Sharp stinging pains in up-
per extremities. Nightly restlessness. Weakness and
aching.

Relationship. — Compare: Cyprip.: Lycopus,

Dose. — Tincture and lower potencies.

SECALE CORNUTUM
(Ergot)

Produces contraction of the unstriped muscular fibers ;
hence a constringent feeling throughout the whole body.
This produces an anemic condition, coldness, numbness,
petechie, mortification, gangrene, A useful remedy for
old people with shriveled skin—thin, scrawny old
women. All the Secale conditions are better from cold.
Hemorrhages; continued oozing; thin, fetid, watery
black blood. Debility, anxiety, emaciation, though ap-
petite and thirst may be excessive. Facial and ab-
dominal muscles twitch. Secale decreases the flow of
pancreatic juice by raising the bleod pressure. (Hins-
dale.)

Head. — Passive, congestive pain (rises from back of
head), with pale face. Head drawn back. Falling of
hair; dry and gray. Nosebleed, dark, oozing.

Eyes. — Pupils dilated. Incipient cataract, senile, es-
pecially in women. Eyes sunken and surrounded by a
blue margin.
668 SECALE (ORNUTUM

Face, — Pale, pinched, sunken. Cramps commence in
face and spread over whole body. Livid spots on face.
Spasmodic distortion,

Mouth. — Tongue dry, cracked ; blood like ink exudes,
coated thick; viscid, yellowish, cold livid. Tingling of
tip of tonguc, which is stiff. Tongue swollen, paralyzed.

Stomach. — Unnatural ravenous appetite; craves
acids. Thirst unquenchable. Singultus, nausea; vomit-
ing of blood and coffee-grounds fluid. Burning in
stomach and ahdomen; tympanites. Eructations of had
odor.

Stool. — Cholera-like stools, with coldness and cramps.
Olive-green, thin, putrid, bloody, with icy coldness and
intolerance of being covered, with great exhaustion.
Involuntary stools; no sensation of passing faces, anus
wide open. [Apts; Phos.]

Urine. — Paralysis of bladder. Retention, with un-
successful urging. Discharge of black blood from blad-
der. Enuresis in old people.

Female. — Menstrual colic, with coldness and in-
tolerance of heat. Passive hemorrhages in feeble,
cachectic women. Burning pains in uterus. Brownish,
offensive leucorrhaa. Menses irregular, copious, dark;
continuous oosing of watery blood until next period.
Threatened abortion about the third month. [Sab.]
During labor no expulsive action, though everything is
relaxed. After-pains. Suppression of milk; breasts do
not fill properly. Dark, offensive lochia. Puerperal
fever, putrid discharges, tympanitis, coldness, suppressed
urine.

Chest. — Dyspncea and oppression. with cramp in dia-
phragm. Precordial tenderness. Palpitation, with con-
tracted and intermittent pulse.

Sleep. —- Profound and long. Insomnia with restless-
SECALE CORNUTUM 669

ness, fever, anxious dreams. Insomnia of drug and
liquor habitues.

Back. — Spinal irritation, tingling of lower extremi-
ties: can bear only slightest covering. Locomotor
ataxia. Formication and numbness.

Extremities. — Cold, dry hands and feet of excessive
smokers with feeling of fuzziness in fingers. Trem-
bling, staggering gait. Formication, pain and spasmodic
movements Numbness. Fingers and feet bluish.
shriveled, spread apart or bent backwards, numb. Vio-
lent cramps. Icy coldness of extreriuties. Violent pain
in finger-tips, tingling in toes.

Skin. — Shriveled, numb; mottled dusky-blue tinge.
Sclerema and cdema neonatorum. Raynaud’s disease.
Blue color. Dry gangrene, developing slowly. Vart-
cose ulcers. Burning sensation; better by cold; wants
parts uncovercd, though cold to touch. Formication;
petechie. Slight wounds continue to bleed. Livid spots.
Boils, small, painful, with green contents; mature
slowly. Skin feels cold to touch, yet covering is not
tolerated. Great aversion to heat. Formication under
shin.

Fever. — Coldness; cold, dry skin; cold, clammy
sweat; excessive thirst. Sense of internal heat.

Modalities. — l/orse, heat. warm covering. Better,
cold, uncovering, rubbing, stretching out limbs.

Relationship. — Compare: Hrgotin. Beginning ar-
terioscleresis progressing rather rapidly. Increased
blood pressure: 2x trit. (when Secale, though indicated,
fails) ; Pedicularis Canadensis (symptoms of locomotor
ataxia; spinal irritation); Brassica napus — Rape-seed
— (dropsical swellings, scorhutic mouth, voracious ap-
petite, typmpanites, dropping of nails, gangrene) ; Cinna-
mon.; Colch.; Ars.; Aurum mur. 2x (locomotor
ataxia): Agrostema (vertigo, headache, difficult loco-
670 =SECALK CORNUTUM — SEDUM ACRE — SELENIUM

motion, burning sensation) ; Ustilago; Carbo; Pituitrin
(dilated os, little pain, no progress. Dose, % c.c., re-
peat in half hour, if necessary. Hypodermically contra-
indicated in first stage of labor, valvular lesions or de-
formed pelvis).

Antidotes: Camph.; Opium.

Dose. — Tincture, to thirtieth potency.

SEDUM ACRE
(Small Houseleek)

Hamorrhoidal pains, like those of anal fissures; con-
stricting pains, worse few hours after stool. Fissurcs.

Relationship. — Compare: Mucuna wurens (hemor-
rhoidal diathesis and diseases depending thereon) ;
Sedum tclephium (uterine hemorrhages, also of bowels
and rectum; menorrhagia, especially at climacteric);
Sedum repens —S. alpestre — (concer; specific action
on abdominal organs; pain, loss of strength).

Dose. --- Tincture to sixth potency.

SELENIUM
(The Element Selenium)

Selenium is a constant constituent of bones and
teeth,

Marked effects on the genito-urinary organs, and
often indicated in elderly men, especially for prostatitis
and sexual atony. Great debslity; worse, heat. Easy ex-
haustion, mental and physical, in old age. Debility after
exhausting diseases.

Mind. — Lascivious thoughts, with impotency. Men-
tal labor fatigues. Extreme sadness. Abject despair,
uncomproinising melancholy.

Head. — Hair falls out. Pain over left eye; worse,
walking in sun, strong odors and tea. Scalp feels tense.
Headache from tea drinking.
SELENIUM 671

Throat. — Incipient tubercular laryngitis. Hawkmng
and raising transparent lumps of mucus every morn-
ing. Hoarseness. Cough in morning, with expectora-
tion of bloody mucus. Hoarseness of singers. Much
clear, starchy mucus. [Stann.]

Stomach. — Desire for brandy and other strong drink.
Sweetish taste. Hiccough and eructations after smok-
ing. After eating, pulsation all over, especially
abdomen,

Abdomen, — Chronic liver affections; liver painful,
enlarged, with’ fine rash over liver region. Stool con-
stipated, hard and accumulated in rectum.

Urinary. — Sensation in the tip of urethra as if a
biting drop were forcing its way out. Involuntary
dribbling.

Male. — Dribbling of semen during sleep. Dribbling
of prostatic fluid. Irritability after coitus. Loss of
sexual power, with lascivious fancies. Increases desire,
decreases ability. Semen thin, odorless. Sexual neu-
rasthenia. On attempting coition, penis relaxes.
Hydrocele,

Skin. — Dry, scaly eruption in palms, with itching.
Itching about the ankles and folds of skin, between
fingers. Hair falls out from brows, beard, and geni-
tals. Itching about finger-joints and between fingers;
in palms. Vesicular eruption between fingers. [Rhus;
Anac.] Seborrhora oleosa; comedones with an oily
surface of the skin; alopecia. Acne.

Extremities. — Paralytic pains in small of back in
the morning. Tearing pain in hands, at night.

Sleep. — Sleep prevented by pulsation in all vessels,
worse abdomen. Sleepless until midnight, awakens
early and always same hour.

Modalities. — Worse, after sleep, in hot weather, from
Cinchona, draught of air, coition.
672 SELENIUM — SEMPERVIVUM TECT. — SENECIO AUREUS

Relationship. — Incompatible: China; Wine,

Compare: Agnus; Calad.; Sulphur; Tellur.; Phosph.
acid.

Antidotes: Jgn.; Puls.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency. Colloidal Selen-
ium injection for inoperable cancer.

SEMPERVIVUM TECTORUM
(Houseleek)

Is recommended for herpes, zoster and canccrous
tumors. Mammary carcinoma. Ringworm. Hem-
rhoids.

Mouth, — Induration of tongue. Malignant ulcers of
mouth. Cancer of tongue. [(alium.] Tongue has ul-
cers; bleed casily, especially at night; much soreness of
tongue with stabbing pains.

Skin. — Erysipelatous affections. J}arts and corns.
Aphthe. Flushed surface and stinging pains.

Relationship. — Compare: Sedum acre — small
Houseleek — (scorbutic conditions; ulcers, intermittent
fever). [Galium; Kali cyanat.}

Dose. — Tincture and 2 decimal, also fresh juice of
plant. Locally for bites of insects, stings of bees, and
poisoned wounds, warts.

SENECIO AUREUS
(Golden Ragwort)

Its action on the female organism has been clinically
verified. Urinary organs also affected in a marked
degree. Backache of congested kidneys. Early cir-
rhosis of liver.

Mind. — Inability to fix mind upon any one subject.
Despondent.

*ead.— Dull, stupefying headache. Wavelike dis-
ess from occiput to sinciput. Sharp pains over Icft
SENFCIO AUREUS 673

eye, and through left temple. Fullness of nasal pas-
sages; burning; sneezing; profuse flow.

Face.— Teeth very sensitive. Sharp, cutting pain
left side. Dryness of fauces, throat, and mouth.

Stomach. — Sour eructations; nausea.

Throat. —- Dry mouth, throat, and fauces. Burning
in pharynx, raw feeling in naso-pharynx, must swallow,
though painful.

Abdomen. — Pain around umbilicus; spreads all over
abdomen; better, stool. Thin, watery stool, inter-
mingled with hard lumps of feces. [Ant. crud.]
Straining at stool; thin, dark, bloody, with tenesmus.

Urinary. — Scanty, high-colored, bloody, with much
mucus and tenesmus. (Great heat and constant urging.
Nephritis. Irritable bladder of children, with head-
ache. Renal colic. [Pareira; Ocim.; Berb.]}

Male, — Lascivious dreams, with involuntary emuis-
sions. Prostate enlarged. Dull, heavy pain in sper-
matic cord, extending to testicles.

‘Female. — Menses retarded, suppressed. Functional
amenorrhea of. young girls with backache. Before
menses, inflammatory conditions of .throat, chest, and
bladder. After menstruation commences, these im-
prove. Anzmic dysmenorrhea with urinary disturb-
ances. Premature and too profuse menses. [Calc.;
Erig.] .

Respiratory. — Acute inflammatory conditions of up-
per respiratory tract. Hoarseness. Cough loose, with
labored inspiration. Chest sore and raw. Dyspneea on
ascending. [Calc.] Dry teasing cough, stitching chest
pains.

Sleep. — Great drowsiness, with unpleasant dreams.
Nervousness and sleeplessness.

” Relationship. — Compare: Senecio Jacobea (cerebro-
674 SENECIO AUREUS — SENEGA

spinal irritation, rigid muscles, chiefly of neck and
shoulders; also, in cancer); Aletris; Caulop.; Sep.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency. Senecin, first
trituration.

SENEGA
(Snakewort)

Catarrhal symptoms, especially of the respiratory
tract, and distinct eye symptoms of a paralytic type,
are most characteristic. Circumscribed spots in chest
left after inflammations.

Mind. — Suddenly remembers unimportant regions
which he saw long ago. Inclined to quarrel.

Head. — Duliness, with pressure and weakness of eyes,
Pain in temples. Bursting pain in forehead.

Eyes. — Hyperphoria, better by bending head back-
wards. Blepharitis; lids dry and crusty. [Graph.]
Dryness, with sensation as if too large for orbits. Star-
ing. Lachrymation. Flickering; must wipe eyes fre-
quently. Objects look shaded. Muscular asthenopia.
[Caust.] Double vision; better only by bending head
backward. Opacities of the vitreous humor. Promotes
absorption of fragments of lens, after operation.

Nose.— Dry. Coryza; much watery mucus and
sneezing. Nostrils feel peppery.

Face. — Paralysis of left side of face. Heat in face.
Burning vesicles in corners of mouth and lips.

Throat. —Catarrhal inflammation of throat and
fauces, with scraping hoarseness. Burning aud raw-
ness. Sensation as if membrane had been abraded.

Respiratory. — Hoarseness. Hurts to talk. Bursting
pain in back on coughing. Catarrh of larynx. Loss of

ice. Hacking cough. Thorax feels too narrow.

ugh often ends in a sneeze. Rattling in chest.
{Tart.} Chest oppressed on ascending. Bronchial ca-
SENEGA — SENNA 675

tarrh, with sore chest walls; much mucus; sensation of
oppression and weight of chest. Dsfficult raising of
tough, profuse mucus, in the aged. Exudations in
Pleura. WHydrothorax. [Merc. sulph.] Pressure on
chest as though lungs were forced back to spine. Voice
unsteady, vocal cords partially paralyzed.
Urinary. — Greatly diminished; loaded with shreds
and mucus; scalding befare and after urinating. Back,
bursting distending pain in kidney region.
Modalities. — Worse, walking in cpen air, during
rest. Better, from sweat; bending head backwards.
Relationship. —- Compare: Caust.; Phos.; Saponin;
Ammon.; Calc.; Nepeta cataria—-Catnip (to break up
a cold; infantile colic; hysteria).
Dose. — Tincture, to thirtieth potency.

SENNA
(Cassia Acutifolia)

Is of much use in infantile colics when the child
seems to be full of wind. Oxaluria, with excess of
urea; increased specific gravity. Where the system is
broken down, bowels constipated, muscular weakness,
and waste of nitrogenous materials, Senna will act as
a tonic. Ebullitions of blood at night. Acefonemia,
prostration, fainting, constipation with colic and flatu-
lence. Liver enlarged and tender.

Stool. — Fluid yellowish, with pinching pains before.
Greenish mucus; never-get-done sensation. [Merc.]
Burning in rectum, with strangury of bladder. Consti-
pation, with colic and flatulence. Liver enlarged and
tender, stools hard and dark, with loss of appetite,
coated tongue, bad taste, and weakness.

Urine. — Density increased; hyperazoturia, oxaluria,
phosphaturia, and acetonuria.
676 SENNA — SEPIA

Relationship. — Compare: Kali carb.; Jalapa.
Antidotes: Nux; Cham.
Dose. — Third to sixth potency.

SEPIA
(Inky Juice of Cuttlefish)

Acts specially on the portal system, with venous con-
gestion. Weakness, yellow complexion, bearing-down
sensation, especially in women, upon whose organism
it has most pronounced effect. Pains extend down to
back, chills easily. Tendency to abortion. [Zinc.]
Hot flashes at menopause with weakness and perspira-
tion, Upward tendency of its symptoms. Easy fainting.
“Ball” sensation in inner parts. Sepia acts best on
brunettes.

Mind. — Indifferent to those loved best. Averse to
occupation, to family. Irritable; easily offended.
Dreads to be alone. Very sud. Weeps when telling
symptoms. Miserly, Anxious toward evening; in-
dolent. .

Head, — Vertigo, with sensation of something roll-
ing round in head. Prodromal symptoms of apoplexy.
Stinging pain from within outward and upward mostly
left, or in forehead, with nausea, vomiting’, worse in-
doors and when lying on painful side. Jerking of head
backwards and forwards, Coldness cf vertex. Head-
ache in terrible shocks at menstrual nisus, with scanty
flow. Hair falls out, Open fontanelles. Roots of hair
sensitive. Pimples on forehead near hair.

Nose. — Thick, greenish discharge; thick plugs and
crusts. Yellowish suddle across nese. Atrophic catarrh
with greenish crusts from anterior nose and pain at root
of nose.

Byes. -— Muscular asthenopia, black spots in the
field of vision; asthenic inflammations, and in connec-
676 SENNA — SEPIA

Relationship. — Compare: Kali carb.; Jalapa.
Antidotes: Nux; Cham.
Dose. — Third to sixth potency.

SEPIA
(Inky Juice of Cuttlefish)

Acts specially on the portal system, with venous con-
gestion. Weakness, yellow complexion, bearing-down
sensation, especially in women, upon whose organism
it has most pronounced effect. Pains extend down to
back, chills easily. Tendency to abortion. [Zinc.]
Hot flashes at menopause with weakness and perspira-
tion, Upward tendency of its symptoms. Easy fainting.
“Ball” sensation in inner parts. Sepia acts best on
brunettes.

Mind. — Indifferent to those loved best. Averse to
occupation, to family. Irritable; easily offended.
Dreads to be alone. Very sud. Weeps when telling
symptoms. Miserly, Anxious toward evening; in-
dolent. .

Head, — Vertigo, with sensation of something roll-
ing round in head. Prodromal symptoms of apoplexy.
Stinging pain from within outward and upward mostly
left, or in forehead, with nausea, vomiting’, worse in-
doors and when lying on painful side. Jerking of head
backwards and forwards, Coldness cf vertex. Head-
ache in terrible shocks at menstrual nisus, with scanty
flow. Hair falls out, Open fontanelles. Roots of hair
sensitive. Pimples on forehead near hair.

Nose. — Thick, greenish discharge; thick plugs and
crusts. Yellowish suddle across nese. Atrophic catarrh
with greenish crusts from anterior nose and pain at root
of nose.

Byes. -— Muscular asthenopia, black spots in the
field of vision; asthenic inflammations, and in connec-
SEPIA 677

tion with uterine trouble. Aggravation of eye troubies
morning and evening. Tarsal tumors.

Ears. — Herpes behind cars on nape of neck, Pain
as if from = sub-cutaneous ulceration. Swelling and
eruption of external ear.

Face. — Yellow blotches; pale or sallow; yellow
about mouth. Rosacea; saddle-like brownish distribu-
tion on nose and cheeks.

Mouth. — Tongue white. Taste salty, putrid. Tongue
foul, ‘ut clears during menses. Swelling and cracking
of lower lip. Pain in teeth from 6 p.M. till midnight;
worse on lying.

Stomach. — Feeling of gonencss; not relieved by eat-
ing. [Carb. an.) Nausea at smeil or sight of food.
Tobacco dyspepsia, Everything tastes too salty. [Carbo
veg.; Chin.] Band of pain about four inches wide en-
circling hypochondria. Nausea in morning before eat-
ing. Disposition to vomit after eating. Burning in pit
of stomach. Longing for vinegar, acids, and pickles.
Worse, after milk. Acid dyspepsia with bloated abdo-
men, sour eructations.

Abdomen. — Flotulent, with headache. Liver sore and
painful; relieved by lying on right side. Many brown
spots on abdomen. Feeling of relaxation and bearing-
down in abdomen.

Rectum. — Bleeding at stool and fullness of rectum.
Constipation; large, hard stools; feeling of a ball in
rectum; cannot strain; with great tenesmus and pains
shooting wpward. Dark-brown, round halls glued to-
gether with mucus, Soft stool, difficult. Prolapsus ani.
[Pod.] Almost constant oosing from anus. Infantile
diarrhoea, worse from boiled milk, and rapid exhaustion.
Pains shoot up in rectum and vagina.

Urinary. — Red, adhesive, sand in urine. Involuntary
678 SEPIA

urination, during first slecp. Chronic cystitis, slow
micturition, with bearing-down sensation above pubis.

Male. — Organs cold. Offensive perspiration. Gleet;
discharge from urethra only during night; no pain.
Condylomata surround head of penis. Complaints from
coition.

Female.— Pelvic organs relaxed. Bearing-down
Sensation as if everything would escape through vulva
[Bell.; Kreos.; Lac c.; Lil. t.; Nat. c.; Pod.]; must
cross limbs to prevent protrusion, or press against
vulva. Leucorrhea yellow, greenish; with much itch-
ing. Menses too late and scanty, irregular; early and
profuse; sharp clutching pains, Violent stitches up-
ward in the vagina, from uterus to umbilicus. Pro-
lapse of uterus and vagina. Morning sickness. Vagina
painful, especially on coition.

Respiratory.— Dry, fatiguing cough, apparently
coming from stomach. Rotteu-egg taste with cough-
ing. Oppression of chest morning and evening.
Dyspneea; worse, after sleep; better, ‘rapid motion.
Cough in morning, with profuse expectoration, tasting
salty. .[Phos.; Ambr.] Hypostatic pleuritis. Whoop-
ing-cough that drags on. Cough excited by tickling in
larynx or chest.

Heart. — Violent, intermittent palpitation. Beating
in all arteries. Tremulous feeling with flushes.

Back.— Weakness in small of back. Pains extend
into back. Coldness between shoulders. °

Extremities.— Lower extremities lame and _ stiff.
Heaviness and bruised feeling. Kestlessness in all
limbs, twitching and jerkings night and day. Pain in
heel,

Fever. — Frequent flushes of heat; sweat from’ least
motjon. General lack of warmth of body. Feet cold
SEPIA — SERUM ANGUILLA-ICHTHYOTOXIN 679

and wet. Shivering, with thirst; worse, towards even-
ing,

Skin. — Herpes circinatus in isolated spots. Itching;
not relieved by scratching; worse in bends of elbows
and knees. Chloasma; herpetic eruption on lips, about
mouth and nose. Ringworm-like eruption every spring.
Urticaria on going in open air; better in warm room.
Hyperidrosis and bromidrosis. Sweat on feet, worse
on toes; intolerable odor, Lentigo in young women,
Ichthyosis with offensive odor of skin.

Modalities. — Worse, forenoons and evenings; wash-
ing, laundry-work, cold air, before thunder-storm.
Better, by exercise, pressure, warmth of bed, hot ap-
plications, drawing limbs up, cold bathing.

Relationship. — Complementary: Nat. mur. Nuzx in-
tensifies action.

Inimical: Lach.; Puls.

Compare: I.l.; Murex; Silica; Sulph.; Asperula
(leucorrhea of young girls and uterine catarrh) ;
Ozonum (sacral pain; tired feeling through pelvic vis-
cera and perineum) ; Dictamnus (metrorrhagia, leucor-
rheea, and constipation; also somnambulism), Lapa-
thum. (Leucorrhcea with constriction and expulsive
effort through womb and pain in kidneys.)

Dose. — Twelfth, 30th and 200th potency. Should
not be used too low or be repeated too frequently.

SERUM ANGUILLAE-ICHTHYOTOXIN
(Eel Serum)

The serum of the eel has a toxic action on the blood,
rapidly destroying its globules. The presence of albu-
min and renal elements in the urine, the hemoglobinuria,
the prolonged anuria (24 and 26 hours), together with
the results of the autopsy, plainly demonstrate its
elective action on the kidneys. Secondarily, the liver
680 SERUM ANGUILL£-ICHTHYOTOXIN

and the heart are affected, and the alterations observed
are those usually present in infectious diseases.

From all these facts it is easy to infer, @ priori, the
therapeutical indications of the serum of the cel. When-
ever the kidney becomes acutely affected, either from
cold or infection or intoxication, and the attack is
characterized by oliguria, anuria and albuminuria, we
will find the ecl’s serum eminently efficacious to re-
establish diuresis, and in rapidly arresting albuminuria.
When during the course of heart-disease, the kidney,
previously working well, should suddenly become
affected and its function inhibited; and when besides
we observe cardiac irregularities and a marked state
of asystolia, we may yet expect good results from this
serum. But to determine here the choice of this
remedy is not an easy matter. While digitalis presents
in its indications, the well-known symptomatic trilogy :
arterial hypertension, oliguria and adema; the serum of
the eel seems better adapted to cases of hypertension and
oliguria, without adema, We should bear in mind that
the elective action of the eel’s serum is on the kidney,
and I believe we can well assert that if digitalis is a
cardiac, the ecl’s scrum is a renal remedy. So far, at
least, the clinical observations published seem to con-
firm this distinction. The serum of the eel has given
very small results in attacks of asystolia; but it has been
very efficacious in cardiac uremia, There, where diyi-
talis is powerless, the serum of the cel has put an end
to the renal obstruction and produced an abundant
diuresis. But its really specific indication seems to he
for acuic nephritis a frigori. (Jousset.)

Subacute nephritis, Heart diseases, in cases of failure
of compensation and impending asytole. The experi-
ment@ of Dr. Jousset have amply demonstrated the rapid

~ haymaturia, albuminuria and oliguria caused by it. In
SERUM ANGUILL.E-ICHTHYOTOXIN — SILICEA 681

the presence of acute nephritis with threatening uremia
we should always think of this serum. Very efficacious
in functional heart diseases. Mitral insufficiency, asys-
tolia with or without cedema, dyspneea and difficult
urinary secretion.

Relationship. — Great analogy exists between eel
serum and the venom of the Vipera.

Compare, also: Pelias; Lachesis. .

Dose. — Attentuations are made with glycerine or
distilled water, the lower 1x to 3 in heart disease, the
higher in sudden renal attacks.

SILICEA
(Silica. Pure Flint)

Imperfect assimilation and consequent defective nu-
trition. Scrofulous, rachitic children, with large head,
open fontanelles and sutures, distended abdomen, slow
in walking. Jl! effects of vaccination. Suppurative proc-
esses, Lack of vital heat. Prostration of mind and
body. Great sensitiveness to taking cold. IJntolerance
of alcoholic stimulants. Ailments attended with pus
formation. Epilepsy [Vant of grit, moral or physical.

Mind. — Yielding. faint-hearted, anxious. Nervous
and excitable. Sensitive to all impressions. Brain-fag.
Obstinate, headstrong children. Abstracted. Fixed
ideas; thinks only of pins, fears them, searches and
counts them,

Head. — Aches from fasting. Vertigo from looking
up; better, wrapping up warmly; when lying on left
side. [Magnes. mur.; Strontia.] Profuse sweat of
head, offensive, and extends to neck. Pain begins at
occiput, and spreads over head and settles over eyes.
Swelling in the glabella.

Eyes. — Angles of eyes affected. Swelling of lach-
rymal duct, Aversion to light, especially daylight; it
682 SILICEA

produces dazzling, sharp pain through eyes; eyes ten-
der to touch; worse when closed. Vision confused;
letters run together on reading. Styes. Iritis and
irido-choroiditis, with pus in anterior chamber. Per-
forating or sloughing ulcer of cornea. Abscess in cor-
nea after traumatic injury. Cataract in office workers,
After-effects of keratitis and ulcus corne, clearing the
opacity. Use 30th potency for months.

Ears. — Fetid discharge. Caries ot mastoid. Loud
pistol-like report. Sensitive to noise. Roaring in ears.

Nose. — Itching at point of nose. Dry, hard crusts
form, bleeding when loosened. Nasal bones sensitive.
Sneezing in morning. Obstructed and loss of smell.
Perforation of septum.

Face. — Skin cracked on margin of lips. Eruption
on chin, Facial neuralgia, throbbing, tearing, face red;
worse, cold damp.

Mouth. — Sensation of u huit on tongue. Gums sen-
Sitive to cold air. Boils on gums. Abscess at root of
teeth. Pyorrhoea. [Merc. cor.] Sensitive to cold water.

Throat. — Periodical quinsy. Pricking as of a pin in
tonsil. Colds settle in throat. Parotid glands swollen.
[Bell.; Rhus; Calc.] Stinging pain on swallowing.
Hard, cold swelling of cervical glands.

Stomach. — Disgust for meat and warm food. On
swallowing food, it easily gets into posterior nares.
Want of appetite; thirst excessive. Sour eructations
afte: eating. [Sepia; Calc.] Pit of stomach painful to
pressure. Vomiting after drinking. [Ars.; Verat.]

Abdomen. — Hard, bloated. Colic; cutting pain,
with constipation; yellow hands and blue nails. Much
rumbling in bowels. Inguinal glands swollen and pain-
ful. Hepatic abscess,

Rectum. — Feels paralyzed. Fistula in ano. [Berb.;
Lach.} Fissures and hemorrhoids, painful, with spasm
SILICEA 683

of sphincter. Stool comes down with difficulty; when
partly expelled, recedes again. Great straining; rectum
stings. Feces remain a long time in rectum. Consti-
pation always before and during menses; with irritable
sphincter ani, Diarrhea of cadaverous odor.

Urinary. —- Bloody, involuntary, with red or yellow
sediment. Prostatic fluid discharged when straining
at stool. Nocturnal enuresis in children with worms.

Male.—- Burning and soreness of genitals, with
eruption on inner surface of thighs. Chronic gonor-
rhe, with thick, fetid discharge. Elephantiasis of scro-
tum. Sexual erethism; nocturnal emissions. Hydrocele.

Female.— A milky [Calc.; Puls.; Sep.J, acrid leu-
corrheea, during urination. Itching of vulva and va-
gina; very sensitive. Discharge of blood between men-
strual periods. Increased menses, with paroxysms of
icy coldness over whole body. Nipples very sore; ul-
cerated easily; drawn in. Fistulous ulcers of breast.
[Phos.] Abscess of labia. Discharge of blood from
vagina every time child is nursed. Vaginal cysts, {Lyc.;
Puls.; Rhod.} Hard jumps in breast. [Contue.]

Respiratory. — Colds fail to yield; sputum persist-
ently muco-purulent and profuse. Cough and sore
throat, with expectoration of little granules like shot,
which, when broken, smell very offensive. Cough with
expectoration in day, bloody or purulent. Stitches in
chest through to back. Violent cough when lying down,
with thick, yellow lumpy expectoration; suppurative
stage of expectoration. [Bals. Perw.}

Back. — Weak spine; very susceptible to draughts
on back. Pain in coccyx. Spinal irritation after injuries
to spine; diseases of bones of spine. Potts’ disease.

Sleep. — Night-walking; gets up while asleep. Sleep-
lessness, with great orgasm of blood and heat in head.
684 SILICEA

Frequent starts in sleep, Anxious dreams. Excessive
gaping.

Extremities. — Tremulous hands when using them.
Paralytic weakness of forearm. Affections of finger-
nails, especially if white spots on nails. Ingrowing toe-
nails. Icy cold and sweaty feet. The parts lain on go
to sleep. Offensive sweat on hands, feet, and axille.
Sensation in tips of fingers, as if suppurating. Panari-
tium. Pain in knee, as if tightly bound. Calves tense
and contracted. Pain beneath toes. Soles sore. [Ruta.]
Soreness in fect from instep through to the sole.

Skin. — Delicate, pale, waxy. Cracks at end at fin-
gers. [Sars.;  Peir.] Felons, abscesses, boils, old
fistulous ulcers. Painless swelling of glands. Rose-
colored blotches. Scars suddenly become painful. Every
little injury suppurates. [Hep.; Grap.] Crippled natls.
Indurated tumors. Abscesses of joints. After impure
vaccination. Dursa. Lepra, nodes, and coppery spots.

Fever, --- Chilliness; very sensitive to cold air.
Creeping, shivering over the whole body. Cold ex-
tremities, even in a warm room. Sweat at night; worse
towards morning. Suffering parts feel cold.

Modalities. — Worse, new moon, in morning, from
washing, during menses, uncovering, lying down, damp,
cold. Better, warmth, wrapping up head, summer; in
wet or humid weather.

Relationship. — Complementary: Thuja; Sanic.;
Puls.: Fluor. ac. Mercurius and Silica do not follow
each other well.

Compare: Black Gunpowder 3x.  Abscesses, boils,
carbuncles, limb purpie. (Wounds that refuse to heal;
accident from bad food or water.—Clark.) Hep.;
Kali phos.; Pic. ac.; Calc. Phos.; Tabasheer; Na-
trum silicum (tumors, hemophilia, arthritis; dose, three
drops three times daily, in milk); Ferrum cyanatum
SILICEA — SILPHIUM 685

(epilepsy; neuroses, with irritable weakness and hyper-
sensitiveness, especially of a periodical! character).
Silica marina — Sea-sand — Silica and Natrum mur.
symptoms. (/nflamed glands and commencing suppura-
tion, Constipation. Use for some time 3x_ trit.)
Vitrum — Crown glass-— (Potts’ disease, after Silica,
necrosis, discharge thin, watery, fetid. Much pain, fine
grinding and grating like grit.) Arundo donax (acts
on excretory and gencrative organs; suppuration, es-
pecially chronic, and where the ulceration is fistulous,
cspecially in long bones). .4drundo (itching eruption on
chest. upper extremities and behind ears.)

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency. The 200th and
higher of unquestioned activity. In malignant affections,
the lowest potencies needed at times.

SILPFHIUM
(Rosin-weed)

Ts used in various forms of asthma and chronic
bronchitis. Catarrh of bladder. Catarrhal influenza.
Dysentery; attack preceded by constipated stools cov-
ered with white mucus.

Respiratory. — Expectoration profuse, stringy,
frothy, light-colored. Constriction of lungs, Catarrh,
with copious, stringy, mucus discharges. Desire to
hawk and scrape throat. Irritation of posterior nares,
involving mucous membranes of nasal passages with
constriction of supra-orbital region.

Relationship. — Compare: -fral.; Copaiv.; Tereb.;
Cubeb.; Samb.; Silphion cyrenatcum (phthisis pul-
monum, with incessant cough, profuse night-sweats,
emaciation, etc.) ; Polygonum aviculare (has been found
useful in phthisis, when given in material doses of the
mother tincture); Salvia (tickling cough). Arum dra-
contium (loose cough at night on lying down). Jus-
686 SILPHIUM — SINAPIS NIGRA— BRASSICA NIGRA

titia adhatoda (bronchial catarrh, hoarseness, oversen-
sitive).

Dose. — Third potency. Lower triturations preferred
by some.

SINAPIS NIGRA—BRASSICA NIGRA
(Black Mustard)

Is of use in hay-fever, coryza, and pharyngitis. Dry
nares and pharynx, with thick, lumpy secretion. Small-
pox.

Head. — Scalp hot and itches. Sweat on upper lip
and forehead. Tongue feels blistered.

Nose.— Mucus from posterior nares feels cold.
Scanty, acrid discharge. Stoppage of left nostril all
day, or in afternoon and evening. Dry, hot, with lach-
rymation, sneezing, hacking cough; better lying down.
Nostrils alternately stopped. Dryness of anterior nares.

Respiratory. — Cough is relieved by lying down.

Throat. — Feels scalded, hot, inflamed. Asthmatic
breathing. Loud coughing-spells with barking expira-
tion.

Stomach. — Offensive breath, smelling like onions.
{Asaf.; Amorac.] Burning in stomach, extending up
cesophagus, throat, and mouth, which is full of canker-
sores. Hot sour eructations. Colic; pains come on while
bent forward; better, sitting up straight. Sweat better
when nausea comes on.

Urinary. — Pain in bladder, frequent copious flow day
and night.

Back. — Rheumatic pain in intercostal and lumbar
muscies: sleeplessness from pain in back and hips.

Relationship, — Compare: Sulph.; Capsic.; Colocy.;
Sinapis alba— White Mustard—~ (throat symptoms
marked, especially burning, with obstruction in cesopha-
gus; similar symptoms in rectum). Mustard oil by
686 SILPHIUM — SINAPIS NIGRA— BRASSICA NIGRA

titia adhatoda (bronchial catarrh, hoarseness, oversen-
sitive).

Dose. — Third potency. Lower triturations preferred
by some.

SINAPIS NIGRA—BRASSICA NIGRA
(Black Mustard)

Is of use in hay-fever, coryza, and pharyngitis. Dry
nares and pharynx, with thick, lumpy secretion. Small-
pox.

Head. — Scalp hot and itches. Sweat on upper lip
and forehead. Tongue feels blistered.

Nose.— Mucus from posterior nares feels cold.
Scanty, acrid discharge. Stoppage of left nostril all
day, or in afternoon and evening. Dry, hot, with lach-
rymation, sneezing, hacking cough; better lying down.
Nostrils alternately stopped. Dryness of anterior nares.

Respiratory. — Cough is relieved by lying down.

Throat. — Feels scalded, hot, inflamed. Asthmatic
breathing. Loud coughing-spells with barking expira-
tion.

Stomach. — Offensive breath, smelling like onions.
{Asaf.; Amorac.] Burning in stomach, extending up
cesophagus, throat, and mouth, which is full of canker-
sores. Hot sour eructations. Colic; pains come on while
bent forward; better, sitting up straight. Sweat better
when nausea comes on.

Urinary. — Pain in bladder, frequent copious flow day
and night.

Back. — Rheumatic pain in intercostal and lumbar
muscies: sleeplessness from pain in back and hips.

Relationship, — Compare: Sulph.; Capsic.; Colocy.;
Sinapis alba— White Mustard—~ (throat symptoms
marked, especially burning, with obstruction in cesopha-
gus; similar symptoms in rectum). Mustard oil by
SIN. NIG. — BRASS. NIG.—SKATOL—SKOOKUM 687

inhalation acts on the sensory nerve endings of the

trigeminal. Relieves pain in middle ear disease and in

painful conditions of nose, nasal cavities, and tonsils.
Dose. — Third potency.

SKATOL

Represents the ultimate end of proteid decomposition
and is a constituent of human feces.

Acne with‘auto-intoxication dependent upon intestinal
decomposition.

Stomach and abdominal symptoms and frontal head-
ache. Sluggishness with no ambition. Desire to curse
and swear.

Mind. — Lack of concentration; impossible to study;
despondent; desire to be with people. Irritable.

Head.—Frontal headache, worse over left eye, in
the evening, better by short sleep.

Gastric—Tongue coated, foul taste. Salty taste to
all cereals. Belching. Appetite increased. Light, yel-
low, narrow, very offensive stool.

Urinary. — Frequent, scanty, burning, difficult.

Relationship. — Compare: Indol.; Baptis.; Sulph.

Dose. — Sixth potency.

SKOOKUM-CHUCK
(Salts from Water from Medical Lake near
Spokane, Wash.)

Has strong affinity for skin and mucous membranes
— An anti-psoric medicine.

Otitis media. Profuse, ichorous, cadaverously smelling
discharge. Lithemia, Catorrh. Urticaria. Skin affec-
tions. Eczema. Dry skin. Hay-fever. Profuse coryza
and constant sneezing.
688 SKOOKUM-CHUCK — SOLANUM LYCOPERSICUM

Relationship. — Saxvonite (eczema, scalds, burns, sores
and hemorrhoids).
Dose, — Third trituration.

SOLANUM LYCOPERSICUM —
LYCOPERSICUM ESCULENTUM

(Tomato)

Marked symptoms of rheumatism and influenza. Se-
vere aching pains all over body. Pains left after in-
fluensa, Head always shows signs of acute congestion.
Hay-fever, with marked aggravation from breathing
the least dust.

Head. — Bursting pain, beginning in occiput and
spreading all over. Whole head and scalp feels sore,
bruised, after pain has ceased.

Eyes.— Dull, heavy: pupils contracted; cyeballs
feel contracted: aching in and around eyes. Eyes suf-
fused.

Nose. -— Profuse, watery coryza; drops down
throat. Itching in anterior chamber; worse, breathing
any dust; better, indoors.

Heart. — Decided decrease in pulse rate with
anxiety and apprehensiveness.

Respiratory. — Voice husky. Pain in chest, extend-
ing to head. Hoarseness; constant desire to clear
throat. Expulsive cough, deep and harsh. Chest op-
pressed; dry, hacking cough coming on at night and
keeping one awake.

Urine. — Constant dribbling i: open air, Must rise
at night to urinate.

Extremities. — Aching through back. Dull pain in
lumbar region. Sharp pain in right deltoid and pec-
toralis muscles. Pain deep in middle of right arm.
Rheumatic pain in right_elhow and wrist, and hands of
SOLANUM LYCOPERSICUM — SOLANUM NIGRUM 689

both sides, Intense aching in lower limbs. Right crural
neuralgia. Tingling along right ulnar nerve.
Modalities. — Worse, right side, open air, continued
motion, jars, noises. Better, warm room, tobacco.
Relationship.—-Compare: Bellad. (follows well);
Eup. perf.; Rhus; Sanguin.; Caps.
Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

SOLANUM NIGRUM
(Black Nightshade)

Used with success in ergotism, with tetanic spasms
and stiffness of whole body, with mania. Marked action
on head and eyes. Meningitis. Chronic iutestinal
toxemia. Brain irritation during dentition. Restless-
ness of a violent and convulsive nature. Formication
with contraction of extremities.

Head. — Furious delirium. Vertigo; terrible head-
ache and complete cessation of the mental faculties.
Night terrors. Congestive headache.

Nose. — Acute coryza; profusc, watery discharge from
right nostril; left stopped up, with chilly sensation,
alternating with heat.

Eyes. —— Pain over both eyes. Alternate dilatation
and contraction of pupils; weak sight; floating spots.

Respiratory. — Constrictive feeling in chest, with
difficult breathing ; cough with tickling in throat. Expec-
toration thick, yellow. Pain in left chest, sore to touch.

Fever. — Alternation of coldness and heat. Scarlet
fever; eruption in spots, large and vivid.

Relationship.— Compare: Bellad.; Solanum Caro-
linense (convulsions and epilepsy, twenty to forty-drop
doses; is of great value in grand mal of idiopathic type,
where the disease has begun beyond age of childhood;
hystero-epilepsy, also in whooping-cough) ; Solan, mam-
mosum (pain in left hip-joint); Solan. oleraceum
690 SOLANUM NIGRUM — SOLIDAGO VERGA

(swelling of mammary gland, with profuse secretion
of milk) ; Solan. tuberosum (cramps in calves and con-
traction of fingers; spitting through closed teeth) ;
Solan. vesicarium (recommended in facial paralysis) ;
Solanum aceticum (threatening paralysis of the lungs
in the course of bronchitis in the aged and children) ;
Solan. pseudocaps. (acute pains, in lower abdomen) ;
Solan. tuberos. @grotans (prolapse of the rectum,
patulous anus; offensive breath and odor of body;
tumors of rectum look like decayed potato).
Dose. — Second to thirtieth potency.

SOLIDAGO VERGA
(Golden-rod)

Inhalation of the pollen has caused hemorrhage from
the lungs in phthisis. Repeated colds of tuberculosis
(2x). Feeling of weakness, chilliness alternating with
heat; naso-pharyngeal catarrh, burning in throat, pains
in limbs and thoracic oppression. Pain in region of
kidneys, with dysuria. Kidneys sensitive to pressure.
Bright’s disease. Hay-fever when Solidago is the ex-
citing cause. Here give 30th potency or higher.

Eyes. — Injected, watery, burning, stinging.

Nose. — Nares irritated with abundant mucus se-
cretion; paroxysms of sneezing,

Stomach. — Bitter taste, especially at night; coated
tongue with very scanty brown and sour urine.

Respiratory. — Bronchitis, cough with much puru-
lent expectoration, blood-streaked; oppressed breathing.

Female.— Uterine enlargement, organ pressed
down upon the bladder. Fibroid tumors.

Urine.— Scanty, reddish brown, thick sediment,
dysuria, gravel. Difficult and scanty. Albumen, blood,
and slime in urine. Asthma, with nightly dysuria.
Pain in kidneys extend forward to abdomen and blad-
SOLIDAGO VERGA — SPARTIUM SCOPARIUM 691

der. [Berb.] Clear and offensive urine. Sometimes -
makes the use of the catheter unnecessary,

Back. — Backache of congested kidneys. [Senec. aur.]

Skin. — Blotches, especially on lower extremities;
ttch. Exanthema of lower extremities, with urinary
disturbances, dropsy and threatened gangrene.

Relationship. —-Iodoform 2x antidotes poison of
Golden-rod. Arsenic. Agrimonia. (Pain in region of
kidneys.)

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

SPARTIUM SCOPARIUM --CYSTISUS
SCOPARIUS
(Broom)

Spartein sulphate increases the strength of the heart,
slows it and reduces the blood pressure. It continues
the good effects of Veratrum and Digitalis without any
of the undesirable effects of ether. (Hinsdale.)

The effect of spartein sulphate (the alkaloid of
Broom) is to cause a lowering of the systolic and dias-
tolic pressures of the provers. Sphygmograms also
show a condition cf lowered blood-pressure. It de-
presses the heart by poisonous action exerted on the
myocardium and this, with the stimulating action
of the drug upon the‘ vague, accounts for the lowered
blood pressure and reduced pulse rate. It weakens the
cardiac contraction. The total amount of yrine is in-
creased. The drug has, therefore, diuretic properties
and is useful in dropsy.

Albuminuria. Cheyne-Stokes respiration. Irregular
heart following grip aud various infections. Hypoten-
sion. Used palliatively in physiological dosage to com-
bat arterial hypertension, arterio-sclerosis. Very use-
ful hypodermically 1/10 to 1/4 grain in sustaining heart
692 SPARTIUM SCOPARIUM — SPIGELIA

after stopping habit of Morphia. Spartium is indi-
cated when primarily the muscles of the heart and es-
pecially the nervous apparatus is affected. Acts rapidly
and lasts three to four days. Does not disturb diges-
tion. Tobacco heart. Nephritis. Angina pectoris.

Stomach. — Great accumulation of gas in gastra-
intestinal canal, with mental depression.

Urinary. — Burning along urinary tract or in pu-
dendum. Profuse flow of urine.

Dose.— For non-homcopathic use (palliative as
above), one to two grains t. i. d. by mouth, exerts a
definite action upon the kidneys that will enable them
to relieve the distress upon the heart. It is a safe drug
and prompt in its action. Hypodermically, not less than
4 of a grain.

Homeopathically. First to third trituration.

SPIGELIA
(Pinkroot)

Has marked elective affinity for the eye, heart, and
nervous system. Neuralgia of the fifth nerve is very
prominent in its effects. Is especially adapted to
anzmic, debilitated, rheumatic, and scrofulous subjects.
Stabbing pains. Heart affections and neuralgia. Very
sensitive to touch. Parts feel chilly; send shudder
through frame. A remedy for symptoms due to the
presence of worms. Child refers to the navel as the
most painful part. [Granat.; Nux mosch.]

Mind. — Afraid of sharp, pointed things, pins,
needles, etc.

Head. — Pain beneath frontal eminence and temples,
extending to eyes. [Unos.] Semi-lateral, involving left
eye; pain violent, throbbing; worse, making a false
step. Pain as if a band arownd head. ([Carbol. ac.;
Cact.; Gels.) Vertigo, hearing exalted. —
SPIGELIA 693

Eyes. — Feel too large; pressive pain on turning them,
Pupils dilated; photophobia; rheumatic ophthalmia.
Severe pain in and around eyes, extending deep into
socket. Ciliary neuralgia, a true neuritis.

Nose.— Forepart of nose always dry; discharge
through posterior narcs. Chronic catarrh, with post-
nasal dropping of bland mucus.

Mouth. — Tongue fissured, painful. Tearing tooth-
ache; worse, after eating and cold. Foul odor from
mouth, Offensive taste.

Face. — Prosopalgia, involving eye, zsygoma, cheek,
teeth, temple; worse, stooping, touch, from morning
until sunset. .

Heart. — Violent palpitation. Frequent attacks of
palpitation, especially with foul odor from mouth.
Pulse weak and irregular. Pericarditis, with sticking
pains, palpitation, dyspnoea. Neuralgia extending to
arm or hoth arms. Angina pectoris. Craving for hot
water which relieves. Rheumatic carditis, trembling
pulse; whole left side sore. Dyspnaa; must lie on
right side with head high,

Rectum. —Itching and crawling. Frequent inef-
fectual urging to stool Ascarides.

Fever, — Chilliness on the slightest motion.

Modalities. — Worse, from touch, motion, noise, turn-
ing, washing, concussion. Better, lying on right side
with head high; inspiring.

Relationship. — Compare: Spigelia Marylandrica
(maniacal excitement, paroxysmal laughing and crying,
loud, disconnected talking, vertigo, dilated pupils, con-
gestions) ; Acon.: Cact.: Cimif.; Arnica (Spigelia is a
chronic Arnica); Cinnab. (supra-orbital pain); Naja;
Spong. (heart); Sabad.; Teucr.; Cina (worm symp-
toms).

Antidote: Pulsat.
694 SPIGELIA — SPIRAEA UL. — SPIRANTHES

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency for neuralgic
symptoms; second to third potency for inflammatory
symptoms.

SPIRAEA ULMARIA
(Hardhack)

Morbidly conscientious. Relieves irritation of the
urinary passages; influences the prostate gland; checks
gleet and prostatorrheea; has been used for eclampsia,
epilepsy, and hydrophohia. Bites of mad animals. Heat
in various parts.

SPIRANTHES
. (Lady’s Tresses)

Has been used for milk-flow in nursing women, Jum-
hago and rheumatism, colic, with drowsiness and spas-
modic yawning. Is an anti-phlogistic remedy akin to
Acon, its symptoms showing congestion and inflamma-
tion,

Female. — Pruritus; vulva red; dryness and burn-
ing in vagina. Burning pain in vagina during coition.
Leucorrhea, bloody.

Extremities. — Sciatic pain, especially right side.
Pain in shoulders. Swelling of veins of hands, Pain
in all articulations of hands. Coldness of feet and toes.

Fever. — Flushes of heat. Sweat on palms. Hands
alternately hot and cold.

Dose. — Third potency.

SPONGIA TOSTA
(Roasted Sponge)

A remedy especially marked in the symptoms of the
respiratory organs, cough, croup, etc. Heart affections,
and often indicated for the tubercular diathesis. Chil-
dren with fair complexion, lax fiber; swollen glands.
Exhaustion and heaviness of the body after slight exer-
SPONGIA TOSTA 695

tion, with orgasm of blood to chest, face. Anxicty and
difficult breathing.

Mind. — Anxiety and fear. Every excitement in-
creases the cough.

Head.— Rush of blood; bursting headache; worse,
forehead.

Eyes. — Watering: gummy or mucus discharge.

Nose. — Fluent coryza, alternating with stoppage.
Dryness; chronic, dry, nasal catarrh.

Mouth. — Tongue dry and brown; full of vesicles.

Throat. — Thyroid gland swollen. Stitches and dry-
ness. Burning and stinging. Sore throat; worse after
eating sweet things. Tickling causes cough. Clears
throat constantly.

Stomach. — Excessive thirst, great hunger. Cannot
hear tight clothing around trunk. Hiccough. .

Male. — Swelling of spermatic cord and testicles, with
pain and tenderness. Orchitis. Epididymitis. Heat in
parts.

Female. — Before menses, pain in sacrum, hunger,
palpitation. During menses, wakes with  suffocative
spells. [Cupr.; Iod.; Lach.] Amenorrhcea, with asth-
ma. [Puls.]

Respiratory.— Great dryness of all air-passages.
Hoarseness; larynx dry, burns, constricted. Cough,
dry, barking, croupy; larynx sensitive to touch. Croup;
worse, during inspiration and before midnight. Res-
spiration short, panting, dificult; fecling of a plug in
larynx. Cough abates after eating or drinking, espe-
cially warm drinks. The dry, chronic sympathetic
cough of organic heart disease is relieved by Spongia.
[Naja.] Irrepressible cough from a spot deep in chest,
as if raw and sore. Chest weak; can scarcely talk.
Laryngeal phthisis. Goitre, with suffocative spells.
Bronchial catarrh, with wheezing, asthmatic cough,
696 SPONGIA TOSTA — SQUILLA MARITIMA

worse cold air, with profuse expectoration and suffoca-
tion; worse, lying with head low and in hot room.
Oppression and heat of chest, with sudden weakness.

Heart. — Rapid and violent palpitation, with dyspnoea ;
cannot lie down. Awakened suddenly after midnight
with pain and suffocation; is flushed, hot, and fright-
ened to death. [Acon.] Valvular insufficiency. An-
gina pectoris; faintness, and anxious sweat. Ebullition
of blood, veins distended. Surging of heart into chest,
as if it would force out upward. Hypertrophy of heart,
especially right, with asthmatic symptoms

Skin. — Swelling and induration of glands; also ex-
ophthalmic; cervical glands swollen with tensive pain
on turning head, painful on pressure; goitre. Itching;
measles.

Sleep. — Awakcs in a fright, and feels as if suffo-
cating. Generally worse after sleep, or sleeps into an
aggravation. [Lach.J

Fever, — .lttacks of heat with anvxiety; heat and red-
ness of face and perspiration.

Modalities. — Worse, ascending, wind, before mid-
night. Better, descending, lying with head low.

Relationship. — Compare: Acon.; Hep.; lod.; Brom.:
Lach.; Mere. prot. (Goitre.)

Dose. — Second trituration, or tincture to third
potency.

SQUILLA MARITIMA
(Sea-onion)

Broncho-pneumonia, A slow acting remedy. Corre-
sponds to ailments requiring several days to reach their
maximum. Persistent, dull, rheumatic pains permeate
‘thie body. A spleen medicine; stitches under left free
#ibs. Important heart and kidney medicine.
696 SPONGIA TOSTA — SQUILLA MARITIMA

worse cold air, with profuse expectoration and suffoca-
tion; worse, lying with head low and in hot room.
Oppression and heat of chest, with sudden weakness.

Heart. — Rapid and violent palpitation, with dyspnoea ;
cannot lie down. Awakened suddenly after midnight
with pain and suffocation; is flushed, hot, and fright-
ened to death. [Acon.] Valvular insufficiency. An-
gina pectoris; faintness, and anxious sweat. Ebullition
of blood, veins distended. Surging of heart into chest,
as if it would force out upward. Hypertrophy of heart,
especially right, with asthmatic symptoms

Skin. — Swelling and induration of glands; also ex-
ophthalmic; cervical glands swollen with tensive pain
on turning head, painful on pressure; goitre. Itching;
measles.

Sleep. — Awakcs in a fright, and feels as if suffo-
cating. Generally worse after sleep, or sleeps into an
aggravation. [Lach.J

Fever, — .lttacks of heat with anvxiety; heat and red-
ness of face and perspiration.

Modalities. — Worse, ascending, wind, before mid-
night. Better, descending, lying with head low.

Relationship. — Compare: Acon.; Hep.; lod.; Brom.:
Lach.; Mere. prot. (Goitre.)

Dose. — Second trituration, or tincture to third
potency.

SQUILLA MARITIMA
(Sea-onion)

Broncho-pneumonia, A slow acting remedy. Corre-
sponds to ailments requiring several days to reach their
maximum. Persistent, dull, rheumatic pains permeate
‘thie body. A spleen medicine; stitches under left free
#ibs. Important heart and kidney medicine.
SQUILLA MARITIMA 697

Acts especially on mucous membranes of the res-
piratory and digestive tracts, and also upon the kidneys.
Valuable in chronic bronchitis of old people with
mucous rales, dyspnoea, and scanty urine.

Eyes. — Feel irritable; child bores into them with
fists.

Stomach. — Pressure like a stone.

Respiratory. — Fluent coryza; margins of nostrils
feel sore. Sneezing: throat irritated; short, dry cough;
must take a deep breath. Dyspnaa und stitches in
chest, and painful contraction of abdominal muscles.
Violent, furious, exhausting cough, with much mucus;
profuse, salty, slimy expectoration, and with involun-
tary spurting of urine and sneesing. Child rubs face
with fist during cough. [Caust.; Puls.] Cough pro-
voked by taking a deep breath or cold drinks, from ex-
ertion, change fron. warm to cold air. Cough of
measles. Frequent calls to urinate at night, passing
large quantities. (Phos. ac.] Sneezing with coughing.

Heart.— A cardiac stimulant affecting the peri-
pheral vessels and coronary arteries.

Urinary.— Great urging: much watery urine, In-
voluntary when coughing.

Skin. — Small, red spots over body, with prickling
pain.

Extremities. — Icy cold hands and feet, with warmth
of the rest of the body. [Mcnyanthes.] Tender feet
with shop girls.

Modalities. — Better, rest; worse, motion,

Relationship. — Compare: Digit.; Strophant.; Apocyn.
can.; Bry.; Kali carb,

Dose. — First to third potency.
698 STANNUM

STANNUM
(Tin)

Debility is very marked when Stannum is the remedy,
especially the debility of chronic bronchial and pul-
monary conditions, characterized by profuse muco-
purulent discharges. Talking causes a very weak feel-
ing in the throat and chest. Pains that come and go
gradually, call unmistakably for Stannum. Paralytic
weakness; spasms; paralysis.

Mind. — Sad and anxious. JDiscouraged. Dread of
seeing people.

Head.— Aching in temples and forehead. Pain
worse motion; gradually increasing and decreasing as
if constricted by a hand; forehead feels pressed in-
wards. Jarring of walking resounds painfully in head.
Drawing pains in malar bones and orbits. Ulceration
of ringhole in lobe of ear.

Throat.— Much adhesive mucus, difficult to de-
tach; efforts to detach cause nausea. Throat dry and
stings.

Stomach. — Hunger. Smell of cooking causes vomit-
ing. Bitter taste. Pain better pressure, but sore to
touch. Sensation of emptiness in stomach,

Abdomen. — Cramp-like colic around navel, with a
feeling of emptiness. Colic reliewed by hard pressure.

Female.—PBearing-down sensation, Prolapsus, with
weak, sinking feeling in stomach. [Sep.] Menses early
and profuse. Pain in vagina, upward and back to
spine. Leucorrheea, with great debility.

Respiratory, — Hoaise, mucus expelled hy forcible
cough. Vivlent, dry cough in evening until midnight.
Cough excited by laughing, singing, talking. During
day, with copious green, sweetish, expectoration. Chest
teels sore. Chest feels weak; can hardly talk. [Cocc.]
STANNUM — STAPHISAGRIA 699

Respiration short, oppressive; stitches in left side when
breathing and lying on same side. Phthisis mucosa.
Hectie fever.

Sleep. — Sleeps with one leg drawn up, the other
stretched out.

Extremities. —— Paralytic weakness; drops things.
Ankles swollen. Limbs suddenly give out when at-
tempting to sit down. Dizziness and weakness when
descending. Spasmodic twitching of muscles of fore-
arm and hand. Fingers jerk when holding pen. Neu-
ritis. Typewriters’ paralysis.

Fever. — Heat in evening; exhausting night-sweats,
especially towards morning. Hectic. Perspiration, prin-
cipally on forehead and nape of neck; debilitating;
smeliing musty, or offensive.

Modalities. — Worse, using voice (1. ¢., laughing, talk-
ing, singing), lying on right side, warm drinks. Better,
coughing or expectorating, hard pressure.

Relationship. — Complementary: Puls.

Compare: Stann. tod, (pulmonary symptoms; cough,
with tickling at root of tongue; state of purulent in-
filtration) ; Caust.; Calc.; Sil.; Tuberc.; RBacil.; Helon.
Compare: Myrtus cheran (chronic bronchitis, cough of
phthisis, emphysema, with gastric catarrha! complica-
tions and thick, yellow difficult sputum. Old persons
with weakened power of expectoration).

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

STAPHISAGRIA
(Stavesacre)

Nervous affections with marked irritability, diseases
of the genito-urinary tract and skin, most frequently
give symptoms calling for this drug. Ill effects of
anger and insults. Sexual sins and excesses. Very
700 STAPHISAGRIA

sensitive, Lacerated tissues. Pain and nervousness after
extraction of teeth.

Mind.—Impetuous, violent outbursts of passion,
hypochondriacal, sad. Very sensitive as to what others
say about her. Dwells on sexual matters; prefers soli-
tude. Peevish. Child cries for many things, and re-
fuses them when offered.

Head. — Stupefying headache; passes off with yawn-
ing. Brain feels squeezed. Sensation of a ball of lead
in forehead. Itching eruption above and behind ears.
[Oleand.}

Eyes. — Recurrent styes. Chalaze. [Platanus.] Eyes
sunken, with blue rings. Margin of lids itch. Affec-
tions of angles of eye, particularly the inner. Lacer-
ated or incised wounds of cornea.

Throat. — Stitches flying to the ear on swallowing,
especially left.

Mouth. — Toothache during menses. 7'eeth black and
crumbling. Salivation, spongy gums, bleed  casily.
(Merc.; Kreos.) Submaxillary glands swollen. After
eating feels sleepy. Pyorrhcea. {Plantago.]

Stomach. — Flabby and weak. Desire for stimu-
Jants. Stomach feels relaxed. Craving for tobacco.
Canine hunger, even when stomach is full. Nausea
after abdominal operations,

Abdomen. — Colic after anger. Hot flatus. Swollen
abdomen in children, with much flatus. Colic, with
pelvic tenesmus. Severe pain fellowing an abdominal
operation. Incarcerated flatus, Diarrhoea after drink-
ing cold water, with tenesmus. Constipation (2 drops
tincture night and morning), hemorrhoids, with en-
larged prostate.

Male. —- Especialiy after self-abuse; persistent dwell- |
ing on sexual subjects. Spermatorrhoea, with sunken
features; guilty look; emissions, with backache and
STAPHISAGRIA 701

weakness and sexual neurasthenia. Dyspnea aiter
coition. .

Female. — Parts very sensitive, worse sitting down.
[Berb.; Kreos.] Irritable bladder in young married
women. Leucorrhea. Prolapsus, with sinking in the
abdomen; aching around the hips.

Urinary. — Cystocele (locally and internally). Cyst-
itis in lying-in patients. Ineffectual urging to urinate
in newly married women. Pressure upon bladder;
feels as if it did not empty. Sensation as if a drop of
urinc were rolling continuously along the channel.
Burning in urethra during micturition. Prostatic
troubles; frequent urination, burning in urethra when
not urinating. [Thuja: Sabal; Ferr. pic.) Urging and
pain after urinating. Pain after lithotomy.

Skin.— Eczema of head, ears, face, and body;
thick scabs, dry, and itch violently; scratching changes
location of itching. Fig-warts pedunculated. [Thuja.]
Arthritic nodes. Inflammation of phalanges. Night-
sweats.

Extremities. — Muscles, especially of calves. feel
bruised. Backache; worse in morning before rising.
Extremities feel beaten and painful. Joints stiff. Crural
neuralgia. Dull aching of nates extending to hip-joint
and small of back.

Modalities, — Worse, anger, indignation, grief, morti-
fication, loss of fluids, onanism, sexual excesses, to-
bacco; least touch on affected parts. Better, after
breakfast, warmth, rest at night.

Relationship. — Inimical: Ranunc. bulb.

Complementary: Caust.; Colocy.

Compare: Ferrum pyrophos. (tarsal cysts) ; Colocy.;
Caust.; Ign.; Phos. ac.; Calad.

Antidote: Camph.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.
702 STELLARIA MEDIA — STERCULIA

STELLARIA MEDIA
(Chickweed)

Induces a condition of stasis, congestion, and slug-
gishness of all functions. Morning aggravation.

Sharp, shifting, rheumatic pains in all parts very
pronounced. Rheumatism; darting pains in almost
every part; stiffness of joints; parts sore to touch;
worse, motion. Chronic rhewmatism. Shifting pains.
[Puls., Kali sulph.] Psoriasis. Enlarged and inflamed
gouty finger joints.

Head. — General irritability. Smarting and burning
in eyes, feel protruded. Dull, frontal headache; worse
in morning and left side with sleepiness. Neck mus-
cles stiff and sore.

Abdomen. — Liver engorged, swollen, with stitching
pain and sensitive to pressure.  Clay-colored stools.
Hepatic torpor. Constipation or alternating constipa-
tion and diarrhcea.

Extremities. — Rheumatoid pains in diffcrent parts
of the body. Sharp pain in small of back, over kid-
neys, in gluteal region. extending down thigh. Pain in
shoulders and arms. Synovitis. Bruised feeling. Rheu-
matic pains in calves of legs.

Modalities. — ]?’orse, mornings, warmth, tobacco.
Better, evenings, cold air, motion.

Relationship.— Compare: Pulsat. (similar in rheu-
matism, pains shifting, worse rest, warmth; better cold
air).

Dose. — Tincture, externally. Internally, 2x potency.

STERCULIA
(Kola-nut)
Neurasthenia. Regulates. the circulation, is tonic and

anti-diarrheic, regulates cardiac rhythm and acts
ditretically. Weak heart.
STERCULIA — STICTA 703

The remedy for the drinking habit. It promotes the
appetite and digestion, and lessens the craving for
liquor. Asthma. Gives power to endure prolonged
physical exertion without taking food and without feel-
ing fatigued.

Relationship. — Coca.

Dose. — Three to ten drops, even one dram doses,
three times a day.

STICTA
(Lungwort)

Offers a set of symptoms like coryza, bronchial ca-
tarrh and influenza, together with nervous and rheu-
matic disturbances. There is a general feeling of dull-
ness and malaise, as when a cold is coming on; dull,
heavy pressure in forehead, catarrhai conjunctivitis, etc.
Rheumatic stiffness of neck.

Mind. -- Feels as tf floating in air. [Datura ar-
borea.] Confusion of ideas; patient must talk,

Head. — Dull headache, with dull heavy pressure in
forehead and root of nose. Catarrhal headache before
discharge appears. Burning in eyes and soreness of
balls. Sensation as if scalp were too small. Burning in
eyelids.

Nose. — Fecling of fullness at the root of the nose.
[Nur.] Atrophic rhinitis. [Calc. fluor.] Dryness of
nasal membrane. Constant need to blow the nose, but
no discharge. Dry scahs, especially in evening and
night. Jlay-fever; incessant sneezing. [Sabad.]

Female. — Scanty flow of milk.

Abdomen. — Diarrhea; stools profuse, frothy;
worse, morning, Urine increased, with soreness and
aching in bladder.

Respiratory. — Throat raw; dropping of mucus pos-
teriorly. Dry, hacking cough during night; worse, tn-
704 STICTA — STIGMATA MAYDIS

Spiration. Tracheitis, facilitates expectoration. Loose
cough in morning. Pain through chest from sternum
to spinal column. Cough after measles [Sang.]; worse
towards evening and when tired. Pulsation from right
side of sternum down to abdomen.

Extremities. — Rheumatic pain in right shoulder
joint, deltoid, and biceps. Swelling, heat, redness of
joints. Spot of inflammation and redness over affected
joint. Pain severe and drawing. Chorea-like spasins;
legs feel floating in air. Housemaid’s knee. [Rhus;
Kali hyd.; Slag.) Shooting pains in knees. Joints and
neighboring muscles red, swollen, painful. Rheumatic
pains precede catarrhal symptoms,

Modalities. — Worse, sudden changes of temperature.

Relationship.— Compare: Datura arborea — Boug-
mancia candida (cannot concentrate thoughts; brain
floats in thousands of problems and grand ideas, Float-
ing sensation as if ideas were floating outside of brain.
Headache, heartburn. Burning sensation a:ound card-
jac end of stomach, extending to esophagus with sense
of constriction. Heat and fullness over liver region.)
Cetraria—Iceland Moss (chronic diarrhea, phthisis,
bloody expectoration.) Also compare: Eryng.; Dros.;
Stilling.; Rumex; Sambus.

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth potency.

STIGMATA MAYDIS — ZEA
(Corn-silk)

Has marked urinary symptoms, and has been used
with success in organic heart disease, with much cedema
of lower extremities and scanty urination Enlarged
prostate and retention of urine. Uric and phosphatic
Gonorrhea. Cystitis.

Urinary. — Suppression and retention. Dysuria.
Renal lithiasis: nephritic colic; blood and red sand in
STIGMATA MAYDIS — STILLINGIA — STRAMONIUM 7205

urine. Tenesmus after urinating. Vesical catarrh.
Gonorrhea. Cystitis.
Dose.—Tincture in ten- to fifty-drop doses.

STILLINGIA
(Queen’s Root)

Chronic periosteal rheumatism, syphilitic and scrofu-
lous affections. Respiratory symptoms well marked.
Torpor of lymphatics; torpid liver, with jaundice and
constipation.

Mind. — Gloomy forebodings; depressed.

Respiratory. — Dry, spasmodic cough. J.arynx con-
stricted, with stinging in fauces. Trachea feels sore
when pressed. Hoarseness and chronic laryngeal affec-
tions of public speakers

Urinary. — Urine colorless. Deposits white sediment ;
urine milky and thick

Extremities. — Aching pains in bones of extremities
and back,

Skin. — Ulcers; chronic eruptions on hands and
fingers. Enlarged cervical glands. Burning, itching of
legs; worse. exposure to air. Exostosis. Scrofulo-
derma; syphilis, secondary eruption and later symptoms.
Valuable for intercurrent use.

Modalities. — Worse, in afternoons, damp air, motion.
Better, in morning, dry air,

Relationship. — Coinpare: Staphis.; Mercur.; Syphil.;
Aur.; Corydalis (syphilitic nodes).

Dose.— Tincture and first potency.

STRAMONIUM
(Thorn-apple)

The entire force of this drug seems to be expended
on the brain, though the skin and throat show some
disturbance. Suppressed secretions and excretions. Sen-
706 STRAMONIUM

sation as if limbs were separated from body. Delirium
tremens.

Mind. — Devout, carnest, besecching and ceaseless
talking. Loquacious, garrulous, laughing, singing, swear-
ing, praying, rhyming. Sees ghosts, hears vuices, talks
with spirits. Rapid changes from joy to sadness.
Violent and lewd. Delusions about his identity; thinks
himself tall, double, a part missing. Religious mania.
Cannot bear solitude or darkness; must have light and
company. Sight of water or anything glittering brings
on spasms. Delirium, with desire to escape. [Bell.;
Bry.; Rhus.)

Head, — Ruises head frequently from the pillow.
Pain in forehead and over eyebrows, beginning at 9
A.M.; worse until noon. Boring pain, preceded by
obscure vision. Rush of blood to head; staggers, with
tendency to fall ferward and to the left.

Eyes. — Seem prominent, staring wide open; pupils
dilated. Loss of vision; complains that it is dark, and
calls for light. Small objects look large. Parts of the
body seem enormously swollen. Strabismus.

Face. — Hot, red; circumscribed redness of cheeks.
Blood rushes to face; distorted. Expression of terror.
Pale face.

Mouth. — Dry; dribbling of viscid saliva. Aversion
to water.* Stammering. [Cannab. sat.) Risus sardoni-
cus. Cannot swallow on account of spasm. Chewing
motion,

Stomach. — Food tastes like straw. Violent thirst.
Vomiting of mucus and green bile.

Urine. — Suppressed, bladder empty.

Male. — Sexual erethism, with indecent speech and
action. Hands constantly kept on genitals.

Female. — Metrorrhagia, with loquacity, singing, pray-
ing. Puerperal mania, with characteristic mental symp-
706 STRAMONIUM

sation as if limbs were separated from body. Delirium
tremens.

Mind. — Devout, carnest, besecching and ceaseless
talking. Loquacious, garrulous, laughing, singing, swear-
ing, praying, rhyming. Sees ghosts, hears vuices, talks
with spirits. Rapid changes from joy to sadness.
Violent and lewd. Delusions about his identity; thinks
himself tall, double, a part missing. Religious mania.
Cannot bear solitude or darkness; must have light and
company. Sight of water or anything glittering brings
on spasms. Delirium, with desire to escape. [Bell.;
Bry.; Rhus.)

Head, — Ruises head frequently from the pillow.
Pain in forehead and over eyebrows, beginning at 9
A.M.; worse until noon. Boring pain, preceded by
obscure vision. Rush of blood to head; staggers, with
tendency to fall ferward and to the left.

Eyes. — Seem prominent, staring wide open; pupils
dilated. Loss of vision; complains that it is dark, and
calls for light. Small objects look large. Parts of the
body seem enormously swollen. Strabismus.

Face. — Hot, red; circumscribed redness of cheeks.
Blood rushes to face; distorted. Expression of terror.
Pale face.

Mouth. — Dry; dribbling of viscid saliva. Aversion
to water.* Stammering. [Cannab. sat.) Risus sardoni-
cus. Cannot swallow on account of spasm. Chewing
motion,

Stomach. — Food tastes like straw. Violent thirst.
Vomiting of mucus and green bile.

Urine. — Suppressed, bladder empty.

Male. — Sexual erethism, with indecent speech and
action. Hands constantly kept on genitals.

Female. — Metrorrhagia, with loquacity, singing, pray-
ing. Puerperal mania, with characteristic mental symp-
STRAMONIUM — STRONTIA 707

toms and profuse sweatings. Convulsions after labor.

Sleep. — Awakens terrified; screams with fright.
Deep snoring sleep. Sleepy, but cannot sleep. [Bell.}

Extremities. —- Graceful, rhythmic motions. Convul-
sions of upper extremities and of isolated groups of
muscles. Chorea; spasms partial, constantly changing.
Violent pain in Icft hip. Trembling, twitching of
tendons, staggering gait.

Skin. -- Shining red flash. Effects of suppressed crup-
tion in scarlatina, with delirium, etc.

Fever. — Profuse sweat, which does not relieve.
Violent fever.

Modalities. — !Vorse, in dark room, when alone, look-
ing at bright or shining objects, after sleep, on swal-
lowing. Better, from bright light, company, warmth.

Relationship.— Compare especially: Hyoscy. and
Bellad. It has less fever than Bellad., but more than
Hyos. It causes more functional excitement of the
brain, but never approaches the true inflammatory con-
dition of Bellad.

Antidotes: Bellad.; Tabac.; Nux.

Dose. — Tincture, to thirtieth potency.

STRONTIA
(Carbonate of Strontian)

Rheumatic pains, chronic sprains, stenosis of cesoph-
agus. Chronic sequele of haemorrhages.  Arterio-
sclerosis. Violent involuntary starts. Affections of
bones, especially femur. Restlessness at night, smother-
ing feeling. For shock after surgical operations.

Head. — Vertigo with headache and nausea. Disten-
sive pressure. Aches from nape of neck, spreading up-
wards; better wrapping head up warmly. [Sil.] Flushes
708 STRONTIA

in face; violent pulsating. Supraorbital neuralgia;
pains increase and decrease slowly. [Stann.] Bloody
crusts in nose. Face red; burns, itches. Itching, red-
ness and burning of nose,

Eyes. — Burning and redness of eyes. Pain and
Jachrymation on using eyes, with dancing and chromatic
alterations of objects looked at.

Stomach.— Loss of appetite, aversion to meat,
craves bread and beer. JT ood tasteless. Eructations
after eating.

Abdomen. — Sticking in abdominal ring, Diarrhoea;
worse at night; continuous urging; better towards
morning. Burning in anus lasts a long time after
stool. [Ratanh.] Uncomfortable fullness and swelling
of abdomen.

Extremities. — Sciatica with edema of ankle. Rhev-
matic pain in right shuulde:. Gnawing as if in mar-
row of bones. Cramps in calves and soles. Chronic
spasms, particularly of ankle-joint. C¢dematous swell-
ing. Icy-cold feet. Rheumatic pains, especially in
joints. Veins of hands engorged.

Fever. — Heat, with aversion to uncover or undress.

Skin. -— Moist, itching, burning eruption; better in
open air. especially warm sunshine. Sprains of ankle-
joint, with adema. Violent perspiration at night.

Modalities. — Better immersing in hot water.
Relationship. — Compare: Arnica; Ruta; Sil.; Baryia
¢.; Carbo.; Stront. jodat. (arterio-sclerosis.) Stront-

ium brom. (often gives excellent results where a bro-
mide is indicated. Vomiting of pregnancy.).

Dose. — Sixth trituration.
STROPHANTUS HISPIDUS 709

STROPHANTUS HISPIDUS
(Kombe-seed)

Strophantus is a muscle poison; it increases the con-
tractile power of all striped muscles. Acts on the heart,
increasing the systole and dimmishes the rapidity. May
he used with advantage to tone the heart, and run off
dropsical accumulations. In small doses for weak
heart; it feels enlarged. In mitral regurgitation, where
cedema and dropsy have supervened. [Digit.] Stroph-
antus occasions no gastric distress, has no cumulative
effects, is a greater diuretic, and is safer for the aged,
as it does not affect the vaso-motors. In pneumonia
and in severe prostration from hemorrhage after opera-
tions and acute diseases. After the long use of stimu-
lants; irritable heart of tobacco-smokers. Arterio-
sclerosis; rigid arteries of aged. Especially useful in
failing compensation dependent upon fatty heart. Hives.
Anemia with palpitation and breathlessness.

Head. —- Temporal pains with double vision, impaired
sight; brillant eyes, flushed face.

Urinary. — Increased secretion; scanty and albu-
minous.

Female. — Menorrhagia; uterine hemorrhage;
uterus heavily congested.

Respiratory. — Dyspna. Lungs congested. C&dema
of lungs. Bronckjal and cardiac asthma.

Heart.— Pulse quickened. Heart's action weak,
due to muscular debility; muscular insufficiency. Car-
diac pain. [crategus.]

Skin. — Urticaria, especially more chronic forms.

Extremities. — Swollen, dropsical.

Relationship. — Compare: Digit. (but is slower than
Strophant, in its action); Phos. ac. (weak heart, irreg-
710 STROPHANTUS HISPIDUS — STRYCHNINUM

ular pulse, fluttering sensation in cardiac region, palpi-
tation during sleep, fainting).

Dose. — Tincture and 6x potency. In more acute
cases, five to ten drops of the tincture three times a day.

STRYCHNINUM
(Alkaloid of Nux Vomica)

Tetanic convulsions with opisthotonos. The muscles
relax between paroxysms; worse slightest touch, sound,
odor. Influences more directly the spinal cord and is
less appropriate in visceral derangements than Nux.
Tetanus, Explosive nervousness. The pains and sen-
sations come suddenly and return at mfervals. The 3x
hypodermically, 10 m. in shock.

Head. — Restless. Over-irritability. Full and burst-
ing headache, with heat in eyes. Vertigo, with roaring
in ears. Jerking of head forwards. Scalp sore. Itch-
ing of scalp and nape.

Eyes.—- Hot, painful. protruding, staring. Pupils
dilated. Sparks before eyes. Spasmodic contraction of
ocular muscles; twitching and trembling of lids.

Ears. — Hearing very acute; burning, itching, and
roaring in ears.

Face. — Pale, anxious. livid. Jaws stiffened; lower
jaw spasmodically closed.

Throat.— Dry, contracted; feeling of a lump.
Deglutition impossible. Burning along and spasms of
cesophagus. Violent itching in roof of mouth.

Stomach. — Constant retching. Violent vomiting.
Nausea of pregnancy,

Abdomen.-—Sharp pain in abdominal muscles,
gripmng pain in bowels.

Rectum. — Feces discharged involuntarily during
spasms. Very obstinate constipation.
STRYCHNINUM 7il

Female. — Desire for coitus. [Canth.; Camph.; Fl.
ac.; Lach,; Phos.; Plat.) Any touch on body excites a
voluptuous sensation.

Respiratory.— Spasm of muscles about larynx. Ex-
cessive dyspnoea. Sharp, contractive pains in muscles
of chest. Persistent cough, recurring after influenza.

Back. — Rigidity of cervical muscies. Sharp pain in
nape and down spine. Back stiff; violent jerks in
spinal column. Icy sensation down spine.

Extremities. — Limbs stiff. Rheumatism with stiff
joints. Wiolent jerking, twitching, and trembling.
Violent tetanic convulsions and opisthotonos; spasms
provoked by slightest touch and attempt tv move. Vio-
lent shocks in the muscles. Cramp-like pains.

Féver.— Cold chills down spine. Perspiration in
a stream down head and chest. Lower extremities cold.

Skin. — Itching of whole body, especially nose. Icy
sensation down the spine.

Modalities. — Worse, morning; touch; noise; motion;
after meals. Better, lying on back.

Relationship.— Compare: Ewucalyptus (neutralizes
ill effects of Strychnin). Strych. ars. (Psoriasis;
chronic diarrhoea with paralytic symptoms; compen-
satory hypertrophy of heart with beginning fatty de-
generation; marked dyspnea when lying down; cedema
of lower extremities, urine scanty, high specific gravity,
heavily loaded with glucose. Diabetes. 6x trit.).
Strych. ct Ferr. cit. (chlorotic and paralytic conditions ;
dyspepsia, with vomiting of ingesta; 2x and 3x trit.) ;
Strych. valerin, (exhaustion of brain-power; women of
high nervous erethism; 2x trit.). Compare: Cicuta;
Arnica (tetanus).

Dose.— Third to thirtieth potency. For non-
homeopathic use, to produce its direct physiological
effects in paralysis the dose will range from one-fiftieth
712 STRYCHNINUM — STRYCHNIA PHOS, — SUCCINUM

to one-twentieth 6f a grain, repeated three times a day.
Under twelve years of age, one-fiftieth to one two-
hundredth of a grain. Strych., hypodermically, is cap-
able of arresting progressive muscular atrophy, and is
a certain stimulant to the respiratory centers, and is
useful in embarrassed breathing, in the course of pneu-
monia especially. Dose, one one-hundredth to one-
sixtieth grain every three hours.

STRYCHNIA PHOSPHORICA
(Phosphate of Strychnin)

This drug acts through the cerebro-spinal system
upon muscles, causing twitching, stiffness, weakness
and loss of power; upon circulation, producing irregu-
larity of pulse, and upon the mind, producing fack of
control, uncontrollable desire to laugh and disinclina-
tion to use the brain. -Very irregular pulse. Useful
in chorea, hysteria, acute asthenia after acute fevers.
Symptoms worse motion, better rest and in open air.
An excellent remedy in anemia of spinal cord; pa-
ralysis: burning, aching, and weakness of spine; pain
extends to front of chest; tenderness on pressure in
mid-dorsal region; cold, clammy feet; hands and axilla
covered with clammy perspiration, Atelectasis and
break in the compensation of a hypertrophied heart;
the beginning of fatty degeneration of the heart muscle.
( Royal.)

Dose. — Third trituration.

SUCCINUM
(Electron. Amber) — (A Fossil Resin)

Nervous and hysterical symptoms. Asthma. Affec-
tions of spleen,

Head. — Fear of trains and close places. Headache,
lachrymation, sneezing.
SUCCINUM — SULFONAL 713

Respiratory.— Asthma, incipient phthisis, chronic
bronchitis, pains in chest. Whooping-cough.

Relationship.— Compare: Succimic acid. (Hay-
fever. Paroxysmal sneezing, itching of eyelids and
canthi and nose worse drafts. Use No. 6 to 30th po-
tency). Compare. Arundo, Wyethia, Sabadilla, Sinapis.

Dose. — Third trituration. Five drop doses of the
oil.

SULFONAL
(A Coal-tar Preduct)

Vertigo of cerebral origin, cerebellar disease, ataxic
symptoms, and chorea, present a field for the homceo-
pathic employment of this drug. Profound weakness,
gone, faint feeling, and despondency. Loss of control
of sphincter. Muscular inco-ordination.

Mind. — Mental confusion, incoherency, illusions;
apathetic. Alternation of happy, hopeful states with
depression and weakness. Extreme irritability.

Head.— Dropsy, stupid; pain on attempting to raise
head. Double vision; heavy look about eyes; tinnitus,
aphasia; tongue as if paralyzed. Eyes bloodshot and
restless. Vertigo, unable to rise. Double vision; ptosis;
tinnitus; dysphagia, difficult speech.

Urinary. — Albuminuria, with casts. Scanty. Pink
color. Constant desire to urinate; scanty, brownish
red. Hmatoporphyrinuria.

Respiratory.— Congestion of lungs; stertorous
breathing. Sighing dyspnea.

Extremities. — Ataxic movements, staggering gait;
cold, weak, trembling; legs sccm too heavy. Extreme
restlessness; muscular twitchings. Knee-jerks disap-
pear. Stiffness and paralysis of both legs. Anzsthesia
of legs.

Sleep. — Fidgety, wakeful, drowsy.
714 SULFONAL — SULPHUR

Skin. — Itching, bluish purpura. Erythema.

Relationship. — Trional (vertigo, loss of equilibrium,
ataxia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stertorous breath-
ing, cyanosis, tinnitus, hallucinations).

Dose. — Third trituration.

Non-Homocopathic Uses. ~ As a hypnotic. Dose, ten
to thirty grains in hot water. Takes about two hours to
act.

SULPHUR
(Sublimated Sulphur)

This is the great Hahnemannian anti-psoric. Its ac-
tion is centrifugal—from within outward — having
an elective affinity for the skin, where it produces heat
and burning, with itching; made worse by heat of bed.
Inertia and relaxation of fiber; hence feebleness of
tone characterizes its symptoms. Ebullitions of heat,
dislike of water, dry and hard hair and skin, red orifices,
sinking feeling at stomach ‘about 11 a. M., and cat-nap
sleep; always indicate Sulphur homeeopathically. Stand-
ing is the worst position for sulphur patients, it is al-
ways uncomfortable. Dirty, filthy people, prone to skin
affections. Aversion to being washed. When carefully-
selected remedice fail to act, espectally in acute diseases,
it frequently arouses the reactionary powers of the or-
ganism. Complaints that relapse. General offensive
character of discharge and exhalations. Very red lips
and face, flushing easily.

Mind. — Very forgetful. Difficult thinking. Delu-
sions; thinks rags beautiful things—that he is im-
mensely wealthy. Busy all the time. Childish peevish-
ness in grown people. Irritable. Attections vitiated ;
very selfish, no regard for others. Religious melancholy.
Averse to business; loafs—tovu lazy to arouse himself.
Imagining giving wrong things to people, causing their
SULPHUR 715

death. Sulphur subjects are nearly always irritable, de-
pressed, thin and weak, even with good appetite.

Head. — Constant hvat on top of head. [Cup. sulph.;
Graph.] Heaviness and fullness, pressure in temples.
Beating headache; worse, stooping, and with vertigo.
Sick headache recurring periodically. Tinea capitis,
dry form. Scalp dry, falling of hair; worse, washing.
Itching; scratching causes burning.

Eyes. —- Burning ulceration of margin of lids. Halo
around lamp-light. Heat and burning in eyes. [Ars.;
Kell.) Black motes before eyes. First stage of ulcera-
tion of cornea. Chronic ophthalmia, with much burn-
ing and itching. Parenchymatous keratitis. Cornea like
ground glass,

Ears. — Whirzzing in ears. Bad effects from the sup-
pression of an otorrhea. Oversensitive to odors. Deaf-
ness, preceded by exceedingly sensitive hearing; catar-
rhal deafness.

Nose. — Ilerpes across the nose. Nose. stuffed in-
doors. Imaginary foul smells. Ale red and scabby,
Chronic dry catarrh; dry scabs and readily bleeding.
Polypus and adenoids.

Mouth. — Lips dry, bright red, burning. Bitter taste
in morning. Jerks through teeth. Swelling of gums;
throbbing pain. Tongue white, with red tip and
borders.

Throat. — Pressure as from a lump, as from a splinter,
as of a hair. Burning, redness and dryness. Ball seems
to rise and close pharynx.

Stomach. — Complete loss of, or excessive appetite.
Putrid eructation. Food tastes too salty. Drinks much,
eats little. Milk disagrees. Great desire for sweets.
[4rg, nit.) Great acidity, sour eructation. Burning,
716 SULPHUR

painful, weight-like pressure. Very weak and faint
about 11 a. M.; must have something to eat. Nausea
during gestation. Water fills the patient up.

Abdomen. — Very sensitive to pressure; internal feel-
ing of rawness and soreness. Movements as of some-
thing alive. [Croc.; Thuj.] Pain and soreness over
liver. Colic after drinking.

Stool. — Frequent, unsuccessful desire; hard, knotty,
insufficient. Child afraid on account of pain. Redness
ground the anus, with itching. Morning diarrhea, pain-
less, drives out of bed, with prolapsus recti. Hzamor-
rhoids, oozing and belching.

Urine. — Frequent micturition, especially at night.
enuresis, especially in scrofulous, untidy children.
Burning in urethra during micturition, lasts long after.
Mucus and pus in urine; parts sore over which it passes.
Must hurry, sudden call to urinate. Great quantities of
colorless urine,

Male. — Stitches in penis. Invoiuntary emissions.
[Nux; Calc.] Itching of genitals when going to bed.
Organs cold, relaxed and powerless.

Female. — Pudenda tiches. Vagina burns. [Berb.;
Nitr. ac.| Much offensive perspiration. [Lyc.; Merc.;
Petrol.; Thuj.] Menses too late, short, scanty, and
difficult; thick, black, acrid, making parts sore. [Kali
c.; Lach.; Sil.] Menses preceded bv headache [Kreos.]
or suddenly stopped. Leucorrhcea, burning, excoriating.
Nipples cracked; smart and burn. [Agar.; Lyc.; Sil.]

Respiratory. — Oppression and burning sensation in
chest. Difficult respirativon; wants windows open.
Aphonia. Heat, throughout chest. Red, brown spots
alt over chest. Loose cough; worse talking, morning,

greenish, purulent. sweetish expectoration. Much rat-
716 SULPHUR

painful, weight-like pressure. Very weak and faint
about 11 a. M.; must have something to eat. Nausea
during gestation. Water fills the patient up.

Abdomen. — Very sensitive to pressure; internal feel-
ing of rawness and soreness. Movements as of some-
thing alive. [Croc.; Thuj.] Pain and soreness over
liver. Colic after drinking.

Stool. — Frequent, unsuccessful desire; hard, knotty,
insufficient. Child afraid on account of pain. Redness
ground the anus, with itching. Morning diarrhea, pain-
less, drives out of bed, with prolapsus recti. Hzamor-
rhoids, oozing and belching.

Urine. — Frequent micturition, especially at night.
enuresis, especially in scrofulous, untidy children.
Burning in urethra during micturition, lasts long after.
Mucus and pus in urine; parts sore over which it passes.
Must hurry, sudden call to urinate. Great quantities of
colorless urine,

Male. — Stitches in penis. Invoiuntary emissions.
[Nux; Calc.] Itching of genitals when going to bed.
Organs cold, relaxed and powerless.

Female. — Pudenda tiches. Vagina burns. [Berb.;
Nitr. ac.| Much offensive perspiration. [Lyc.; Merc.;
Petrol.; Thuj.] Menses too late, short, scanty, and
difficult; thick, black, acrid, making parts sore. [Kali
c.; Lach.; Sil.] Menses preceded bv headache [Kreos.]
or suddenly stopped. Leucorrhcea, burning, excoriating.
Nipples cracked; smart and burn. [Agar.; Lyc.; Sil.]

Respiratory. — Oppression and burning sensation in
chest. Difficult respirativon; wants windows open.
Aphonia. Heat, throughout chest. Red, brown spots
alt over chest. Loose cough; worse talking, morning,

greenish, purulent. sweetish expectoration. Much rat-
SULPHUR 717

tling of mucus. Chest feels heavy; stitches, with heart
feeling too large and palpitating. Pleuritic exudations,
Use Tinctura sulphuris. Stitching pains shooting
through to the back, worse lying on back or breathing
deeply. Flushes of heat in chest rising to head. Op-
pression, as of a load on chest. Dyspnea in middle of
night, relieved by sitting up. Pulse more rapid in morn-
ing than in evening. [Ars.]

Back. — Drawing pain between shoulders. Stiffness
of nape. Sensation as if vertebre glided over each
other,

Extremities.— Trembling of hands. fot, sweaty
hands. Rheumatic pain in left shoulder. Heaviness;
paretic feeling. Rheumatic gout, with itching. Burning
in soles and hands at night. Sweat in armpits, smelling
like garlic. Drawing and tearing in arms and hands.
Stiffness of knees and ankles. Cannot walk erect;
stoop-shouldered. Ganglion.

Sleep. — Talks, jerks, and twitches during sleep.
Vivid dreams. Wakes up singing. Wakes frequently,
and becomes wide awake suddenly. Catnaps; slightest
noise awakens. Cannot sleep between 2 and 5 a. M.

Fever. — Frequent flashes of heat. Violent ebullitions
of heat throughout entire bedy. Dry skin and great
thirst Night sweat, on nape and occiput. Perspiration
of single parts. Disgusting sweats. Remittent type.

Skin. — Dry, scaly, unhealthy; every little injury sup-
purates. Freckles. Jtching, burning; worse scratching
and washing. Pimply eruption, pustules, rhagades, hang-
nails. Excoriation, especially in folds. [Lyc.] Feeling
of a band around bones. Skin affections after local
medication. Pruritus, especially from warmth, in even-
ing, often recurs in spring-time, in damp weather.

Modalities. — Worse, at rest, when ‘standing, warmth
718 SULPHUR

in bed, washing, bathing, in morning, 11 a. M., night,
from alcoholic stimulants, periodically. Better, dry,
warm weather, lying on right side, from drawing up
affected limbs.

Relationship.—-Complementary: Aloe; Psorin.;
Acon.; Pyrarara (a fish caught in the Amazon, clinic-
ally used for various skin affections). Lepra, tubercu-
lides, syphilides, varicosities, etc.

Compare: Acon. (Sulph. often follows in acute dis-
eases); Mercur. and Calcarea are frequently useful
after Sulphur, not before. Lyc.; Sep.; Sars.; Puls.;
Sulphur hydrogenisatum (delirium, mania, asphyxia) ;
Sulphur terebinthinatum (chronic rheumatic arthritis;
chorea); Tannic acid (constipation). Magnes. arlifi-
cialis (great hunger in evening, profuse sweat on face,
bruised pain in joints, rectal constriction after stool).

Magnetis polus Articus (anxious, coldness of eyes
as if a piece of ice lay in orbit, increased flow of saliva,
constipation, sopor, trembling, abdominal flatulence).

Magnetis polus Australis (dryness of lids, easy dis-
location of ankle, ingrowing toc-nails, aching in patella,
shooting in soles).

Compare in adenoids: Agraphis.

Dose. — Acts in all potencies from the lowest to the
highest. Some of the best results are obtained from
the higher, and not too frequent doses. The twelfth
potency is a good one to begin treatment with, going
higher or lower according to the susceptibility of the
patient. In chronic diseases, 200th and upward. In
torpid eruptions the lowest potencies.
SULPHUR IODATUM — SULPHURICUM aciDUM 719

SULPHUR IODATUM
(Iodide of Sulphur)

Obstinate skin affections, notably in barber’s itch and
acne,

Throat. — Uvula and tonsils enlarged and reddencd.
Swollen. Tongue thick. Parotid hypertrophied.

Skin. -- Itching on ears, nose, and in urethra. Papu-
lar eruption on face. Cold-sores on lips. Boils on
neck. Barher’s itch. <fewe. Lichen planus. Arms
covered with itching rash. Hair feels as if erect.

Dose, — Third trituration.

SULPHURICUM ACIDUM
(Sulphuric Acid)

The “debility” common to acids shows itself here,
especially in the digestive tract, giving a very relaxed
feeling in the stomach, with craving for stimulants.
Tremor and weakness; everything must be done in a
hurry. Jfot flushes, followed by perspiration, with
trembling. Tendency to gangrene following mechanical
injuries. Writer’s cramp. Lead poisoning.

Mind. — Fretful, impatient, Unwilling to answer
questions; hurried.

Head. — Right-sided neuralgia; painful shocks; skin
feels pinched. Sensation as if brain was loose in fore-
head and falling from side to side. ([Bell.; Rhus.]
Concussion of brain where skin is cold, body bathed in
cold sweat. Compressive pain in side of occiput; re-
lieved by holding the hands near the head. Pain of
outer parts, as if there were subcutaneous ulceration;
painful to touch. Thrust in right temple as if plug
were pressed in.
720 SULPHURICUM ACIDUM

Eyes. — Intra-ocular hemorrhage following trauma-
tism. Great chemosis of conjunctiva, with aching and
sharp pain.

Mouth. — Aphthe; gums bleed readily. Offensive
breath. Pyorrhoea.

Stomach. — Heartburn; sour eructations; sets teeth
on edge. [Robin.] Craving for alcohol. Water causes
coldness of stomach; must be mixed with liquors. Re-
laxed feeling in stomach. Averse w smell of coffee.
Sour vomiting. Desire for fresh food. Hiccough.
[Nux.; Hydroc. ac.; Mosch.] Coldness of stomach re-
lieved by applied heat. Nausea with chilliness.

Abdomen. — Weak feeling, with dragging into the
hips and small of back. Feeling as if hernia would
protrude [Nux], especially left side.

Rectum. — Piles; oozing dampness. Rectum feels as
if it had a big ball. Diarrhea, fetid, black, with sour
odor of body, and empty faint feeling in abdomen.

Female. — Menstruation early and profuse. Erosion
of cervix in the aged; easily bleeding. Acrid, burning
leucorrhoea, often of bloody mucus,

Respiratory. — Respiration rapid with shooting in cer-
vical muscles and movement of wings of nose; larynx
moves up and down violently. Bronchitis in children
with short, teasing cough.

Extremities. — Cramp-like paralytic contraction in
arms, hands; jerking of fingers while writing. [Stann.;
Caust.; Cyclam.]}

Skin. — Bad effects from mechanical injuries, with
bruises and livid skin. [.4rn.; Acet. ac.] Ecchymosis.
Petechiz. Purpura hamorrhagica. ([Crotal.; Arn.]
Livid, red, itching blotches. Hemorrhage of black
‘ blood from all outlets. Cicatrices turn red and blue and
SULPHURICUM ACIDUM — SULPHUROSUM actoUM 721

become painful. Chilblains with gangrenous tendency.
Carbuncles, boils and other staphylococcic and strepto-
coccic infections.

Modalities. — Worsc, from excess of heat or cold in
forenoon and evening. Better, from warmth, and lying
on affected side.

Relationship. —- Complementary: Puls,

Compare: Sulphurous acid (acne rosacea, ulcerative
stomatitis, pityriasis versicolor) ; Arn.; Calend.; Led.;
Sep.; Cale.

Dose. — Sulphuric acid mixed with three parts of
alcohol, ten to fifteen drops three times daily for sev-
eral weeks, has been successfully used to subdue the
craving for liquor. For homceopathic purposes second
to thirtieth potency.

SULPHUROSUM ACIDUM
(Sulphurous Acid. H, § O,)

Head. — Anxious, furious, disposed to fight. Head-
ache better by vomiting. Ringing in ears.

Mouth. — Ulcerative inflanimation of mouth. Ton-
gue red or bluish-red.

Stomach. — Loss of appetite. Obstinate constipa-
tion.

Respiratory. — Persistent choking cough with copious
expectoration. Hoarseness, constriction of chest. Diffi-
cult breathing.

Female.—Fluor albus. Debility.

Dose. — According to Ringer, ten to fifteen minims
taken ten minutes before each meal will remedy pyrosis
and prevent fermentation and flatulence. It also re-
moves thrush. Homeopathically, third attenuation.
722 SUMBUL — SYMPHORICARPUS RACEMOSA

SUMBUL
(Musk-root)

Has many hysterical and nervous symptoms, and is of
use in neuralgic affections and anomalous, functional,
cardiac disorders. Jnsomnia of delirium tremens (fif-
teen drops of tincture). Sensation as if water dropped
down spine. Asthma.

Head. — Emotional and fidgety. Dull in morning,
clear in evening. Mistakes in writing and adding.
Comedones. Tenacious, yellow, mucus in nose.

Throat. —- Choking constriction; constant swallowing.
Belching of gas from stomach. Spasm of pharyngeal
muscles. Tenacious mucus in throat.

Heart. — Nervous palpitation, Neuralgia around left
breast and left hypochondriac region. Loses breath on
any exertion. Pulse irregular.

Female. — Ovarian neuralgia. Abdomen full, dis-
tended, and painful. Climacteric flushes.

Urinary. — Oily pellicle on surface of urine.

Relationship. — Compare: 4saf.; Mosch.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

SYMPHORICARPUS RACEMOSA
(Snowberry)

This drug is highly recommended for the persistent
vomiting of pregnancy, Gastric disturbances, fickle ap-
petite, nausea, waterbrash, bitter taste. Constipatiun.
Nausea during menstruation. Nausea, worse any mo-
tion. Averse to all food. Better, lying on back.

Dose. —- Second and third potency.

200th has proved curative.
SYMPHYTUM — SYPHILINUM 723

SYMPHYTUM
(Comfrey — Knitbone)

The root contains a crystalline solid, that stimulates
the growth of epithelium on ulcerated surfaces. It may
be administered internally in the treatment of gastric
and duodenal ulcers. Also in gastralgia, and externally
in pruritus ani. Injuries to sinews, tendons and the
periosteum.

Of great use in wounds penetrating to perineum and
bones, and in non-union of fractures; irritable stump
after amputation, irritable bone at point of fracture.
Psoas abscess. Pricking pain and soreness of peri-
osteum.

Head. — Pain in occiput, top and forehead; changing
places. Pain comes down bone of nose. Inflammation
of inferior maxillary bone, hard, red, swelling.

Eye. — Pain in eye after a blow of an obtuse body.
For traumatic injuries of the eyes no remedy equals
this.

Relationship. —Compare: Arn.; Cale. phos.

Dose, — Tincture

Externally as a dressing for sores and ulcers and
pruritus ani.

SYPHILINUM
(The Syphilitic Virus—A Nosode)

Utter prostration and debility in the morning.

Shifting rheumatic pains. Chronic eruptions and
rheumatism, .

ichthyosis. Syphilitic affections. Pains from dark-
ness to daylight; decrease and increase gradually.
Hereditary tendency to alcoholism. Ulceration of
mouth, nose. genitals, skin. Succession of abscesses.
724 SYPHILINUM

Mind.— Loss of memory; remembers everything
previous to his illness. Apathetic; feels as if going in-
sane or being paralyzed. Fears the night, and the suffer-
ing from exhaustion on awakening. Hopeless; despairs
of recovery.

Head.— Linear pains from temple across, or from
eyes backward; cause sleeplessness and delirium at night.
Falling of the hair. Pain in bones of head. Top of
head feels as if coming off. Stupefying cephalalgia.

Eyes. — Chronic, recurrent, phlyctenular inflammation
of cornea; successive crops of phyctenules and abra-
sions of epithelial layer of cornea; photophobia intense,
lachrymation profuse. Lids swollen; pain intense at
night; ptosis. Tubercular iritis. Diplopia; one image
seen below the other. Feeling of cold air blowing on
eye. [Fluor. ac.]

Ears. — Caries of ossicles in ear of syphilitic origin.

Nose. — Caries of nasal bones, bard palate and sep-
tum, with perforation; ozzna.

Mouth.— Teeth decay at gum; edges serrated,
dwarfed. Tongue coated, teeth-indented; deep iongi-
tudinal cracks. Ulcers smart and burn. Excessive
flow of saliva; it runs out of mouth when sleeping.

Stomach. — Craves alcohol.

Rectum. — Feels tied up with strictures. Enemas
very painful. Fissures, prolapse.

Extremities. — Sciatica; worse at night; better about
daybreak. Rheumatism of shoulder-joint, at insertion
of deltoid. Run-around. Severe pain in long bones.
Redness and rawness between toes. [Si/.] Rheuma-
tism, muscles are caked in hard knot or lumps. A/-
ways washing the hands. Indolent ulcers. Muscles
contracted in hard knots.

Female.— Ulcers on labia. Leucorrhea profuse,
thin, watery, acrid, with sharp, knife-like pain in ovaries.
SYPHILINUM — SYZYGIUM JAMBOLANUM —TAB. 725

Respiratory. — Aphonia; chronic asthma in summer,
wheezing and rattling. [Tart, emei.] Cough dry, hard;
worse at night; windpipe sensitive to touch. [Lach.]
Lancinating pains from base of heart to apex at night.

Skin. — Reddish-brown eruption, with a disagreeable
odor. Extreme emaciation,

Relationship. -—- Compare: Merc.; Kal. hyd.; Nit ac.;
Aur.; Alum,

Modalities. — Worse, at night, sundown to sunrise,
seashore, in summer. Better, inland and mountains,
during day, moving about slowly.

Dose. — The highest potencies only, and in infrequent
doses.

SYZYGIUM JAMBOLANUM
(Jambol Seeds — Erlexing, active principle)

A most useful remedy in diabetes mellitus. No other
remedy causes in so marked degree the diminution and
disappearance of sugar in the urine. Prickly heat wm
upper part of the body; small red pimples itch violently.
Great thirst, weakness, emaciation. Very large amount
of urine, specific gravity high. Old ulcers of skin.
Diabetic ulceration. The seeds powdered, ten grains
three times a day; also, the tincture.

TABACUM
(Tobacco)

The symptomatology of Tabacum is exceedingly well
marked. The nausea, giddiness, death-like pallor, vom-
iting, icy coldness, and sweat, with the intermittent
pulse, are all most characteristic. Has marked anti-
septic qualities, antidotal to cholera germs. Complete
726 TABACUM

prostration of the entire muscular system. Collapse.
Arterio-sclerosis. Gastralgia, enteralgia, seasickness,
cholera infantum; cold, but wants abdomen uncovered.
Vigorous peristaltic activity, diarrhcea.

Mind. — Sensation of excessive wretchedness. Very
despondent. Forgetful. Discontented.

Head. — Vertigo on opening eyes; sick headache, with
deathly nausea; periodical. Sudden pain, as if struck
by a hammer. Nervous .deafness.

Eyes.— Dim sight; sees as through a veil; strabis-
mus. Amaurosis; musce volitantes.

Face. — Pale, blue, pinched, sunken, collapsed, cov-
ered with cold sweat. [rs.; L’crat.] Freckles.

Throat. — Nasopharyngitis and tracheitis, Acmming,
morning cough, sometimes with vomiting. Hoarseness
of public speakers.

Stomach, - Incessant nausea; worse, smell of to-
bacco smoke [Phos.]; vomiting on least motion, during
pregnancy with much spitting. (Ant. t.; Asar.; Kreos.;
Nux v.; Sep.; Strych.]  Scasickness; terrible faint,
sinking feeling at pit of stomach, Sense of relaxation
of stomach, with nausea. [/pec.j] Gastralgia; pain from
cardiac end extending to left arm.

Abdomen.— Cold. Wants abdomen uncovered. It
lessens the nausea and vomiting.

Rectum. — Constipation ; rectum paralyzed, prolapsed.
Diartheea, sudden, watery, with nausea and vomiting,
prostration, and cold sweat; discharges look like sour
milk, thick, curdled, watery.

Urinary, — Renal colic; violent pain along ureter, left
side,

Heart. -— Palpitation when lying on left side. Pulse
intermits, feeble, imperceptible. Angina pectoris, pain
726 TABACUM

prostration of the entire muscular system. Collapse.
Arterio-sclerosis. Gastralgia, enteralgia, seasickness,
cholera infantum; cold, but wants abdomen uncovered.
Vigorous peristaltic activity, diarrhcea.

Mind. — Sensation of excessive wretchedness. Very
despondent. Forgetful. Discontented.

Head. — Vertigo on opening eyes; sick headache, with
deathly nausea; periodical. Sudden pain, as if struck
by a hammer. Nervous .deafness.

Eyes.— Dim sight; sees as through a veil; strabis-
mus. Amaurosis; musce volitantes.

Face. — Pale, blue, pinched, sunken, collapsed, cov-
ered with cold sweat. [rs.; L’crat.] Freckles.

Throat. — Nasopharyngitis and tracheitis, Acmming,
morning cough, sometimes with vomiting. Hoarseness
of public speakers.

Stomach, - Incessant nausea; worse, smell of to-
bacco smoke [Phos.]; vomiting on least motion, during
pregnancy with much spitting. (Ant. t.; Asar.; Kreos.;
Nux v.; Sep.; Strych.]  Scasickness; terrible faint,
sinking feeling at pit of stomach, Sense of relaxation
of stomach, with nausea. [/pec.j] Gastralgia; pain from
cardiac end extending to left arm.

Abdomen.— Cold. Wants abdomen uncovered. It
lessens the nausea and vomiting.

Rectum. — Constipation ; rectum paralyzed, prolapsed.
Diartheea, sudden, watery, with nausea and vomiting,
prostration, and cold sweat; discharges look like sour
milk, thick, curdled, watery.

Urinary, — Renal colic; violent pain along ureter, left
side,

Heart. -— Palpitation when lying on left side. Pulse
intermits, feeble, imperceptible. Angina pectoris, pain
TABACUM 727

in precordial region. Pain radiates from center of
sternum, Tachycardia, Bradycardia.

Respiratory. — Difficult, violent constriction of chest.
Precordial oppression, with palpitation and pain be-
tween shoulders. Cough followed by hiccough. Cough
dry, teasing. must take a swallow of cold water
|Caust; Phos.]. Dyspceena, with tingling down left arm
when lying on !feft side.

Extremities. — Legs and hands icy cold; limbs trem-
ble. Paralysis following apoplexy. [Plumb.] Gait
shuffling, unsteady,

Sleep.— Insomnia with dilated heart, with cold,
clammy skin and anxiety.

Fever. — Chills, with cold sweat.

Modalities. — Worse, opening eyes; evening; ex-
tremes of heat and cold. Better, uncovering, open fresh
air.

Relationship. -— Compare: Hydrobromic acid;
Camph.; Verat.; Ars. Compare: Nicotinum (Alter-
nate tonic and clonic spasms, followed by general re-
laxation and trembiing; nausea, cold sweat, and speedy
collapse; head drawn back, contraction of eyelids and
masseter muscles; muscles of neck and back rigid;
hissing respiration from spasm of Jaryngeal and bron-
chial muscles). :

Antidote: Ars, (chewing tobacco) ; Jgn.; (smoking) ;
Sep. (neuralgia and dyspepsia); Lycop. (impotentcy) ;
Nux (bad taste due to tobacco); Calad. and Plantag.
(cause aversion to tobacco); Phosp. (tobacco heart,
s/xual weakness).

’ Dose. — Third to thirtieth and higher potencies.
728 TANACETUM VULGARE— TARANTULA CUBENSIS

TANACETUM VULGARE
(Tansy)

Abnormal lassitude. Nervous and tired feeling.
“Half dead, half alive feeling” all over. Of use in
chorea and reflex spasms (worms). Said to be a spe-
cific against effects of poison ivy.

Head.—Heavy, dull, confused. Headache with least
exertion.

Mental. — Irritable, sensitive to noise. Mental fatigue.
nausea and vertigo, worse in a closed room.

Ears. — Roaring and ringing; voice sounds strange;
ears seem to close up suddenly,

Abdomen. — Pain in bowels; relieved by stool. De-
sire for stool immediately after eating. Dysentery.

Female. — Dysmenorrheea, with bearing-down pains,
tenderness, drawing in groins. Menses suppressed;
later, profuse.

Respiratory. — Hurried, labored, stertorous respira-
tion. Frothy mucus obstructs the air-passages.

Relationship. — Compare: Cimicif.; Cina; Absinth.
Nuzx follows well,

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

TARENTULA CUBENSIS
(Cuban Spider)

A toxemic medicine, septic conditions. Diphtheria.
Adapted to the most severe types of inflammation and
pain, early and persistent prostration. Various forms
of malignant suppuration. Purplish hue and burning,
stinging pains. Bubo. It is the remedy for pain of
death; soothes the last struggles. Pruritus, especially
TARANTULA CUBENSIS—~ TARANTULA HISPANIA 729

avout genitals, Restless feet. Intermittent septic chills.
Bubonic plague. As a curative and preventive remedy
especially during the period of invasion.

Head. — Dizziness after heat and hot perspiration.
Dull ache on top of head. Shooting pain through left
eye across frontal region.

Gastric. — Stomach feels hard, sore. Loss of appetite
except for breakfast.

Back. — Itches across kidney region.

Extremities. — Hands tremble, turgid with blood.

Urinary. — Retention. Cannot hold urine on cough-
ing.

Skin. — Red spots and pimples. Feels puffed all over.
Carbuncles, burning, stinging pains. Purplish hue.
Gangrene. Abscesses, where pain and inflammation
predominate. Scirrhus of breasts. “Senile” ulcers.

Sleep. — Drowsiness. Sleep restless. Sleep prevented
by harsh cough.

Relationship. — Compare: Ars.; Pyrog.; Crotal.;
Echin.; Anthrac.; Bellad.; Apis.

Modalities. —- Better, smoking. Worse, night.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

TARENTULA HISPANIA
(Spanish Spider)

Remarkable nervous phenomena; hysteria with
chlorosis; chorea, dysmenorrhoea, spinal irritability.
Extreme restlessness; must keep in constant motion.
Hysterical epilepsy.

Mind. — Sudden alteration of mood. Foxy. De-
structive impulses; moral relaxation. Must constantly
busy herself or walk.
730 TARANTULA HISPANIA — TARAXACUM

Head. — ‘Intense pain, as if thousands of needles were
pricking into brain. Vertigo. [Granatum.]

Male. — Sexual excitement; lasciviousness reaching
almost to insanity; seminal emissions.

Heart. — Palpitation; precordial anguish, sensation as
if heart twisted and turned around.

Female. — Vulva dry and hot, with much itching.
Profuse menstruation, with frequent erotic spasms.
Pruritus vulv@; nymphomania. Dysmenorrhea, with
very sensitive ovaries,

Extremities. — Weakness of legs; choreic movements.
Numbness of legs. Multiple sclerosis, with trembling.
Turtching and jerking.

Modalities. — IV orse, motion, contact, noise. Better,
in open air, music, bright colors, rubbing affected parts.
Horse, seeing others in trouble.

Relationship.— Compare: Agar.; Cimicif.; Cupr.:
Mag. phos.

Antidote: Lach.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

TARAXACUM
(Dandelion)

For gastric headaches, bilious attacks, with char-
acteristically mapped tongue ahd jaunced skin. Cancer.
Relief from touch. Hysterical tympanitcs,

Head. — Sensation of great heat on top of head.
Sterno-mastoid muscle very painful to touch.

Mouth. — Mapped tongue. (Ant. c.; Ars.; Kali.)
Tongue covered with a white filin; feels raw; comes
off in patches, leaving red, sensitive spots. Loss of ap-
petite. Bitter taste and eructations. Salivation. [Aferc.;

Syph.]
TARAXACUM — TARTARICUM ACIDUM 731

Abdomen. — Liver enlarged and indurated. Sharp
stitches in left side. Sensation of bubbles bursting in
bowels. Tympanites. Evacuation difficult.

Extremities.— Very restless limbs. Neuralyia of
knee; better, pressure. Limbs painful to touch.

Fever. — Chilliness after eating, worse drinking;
finger tips cold. Bitter taste. Heat without thirst, in
face, in atiacks in toes. Sweat on falling asleep.

Skin. — Profuse night-sweats.

Modalities. — Worse, resting, lying down, sitting.

Relationship. — Compare: Choline, a constituent of
Taraxacum root, has given encouraging results in the
treatment of cancer. Choline is closely related to
Neurin, it is the “Cancronie” of Prof. Adamkiewicz (E.
Schlegel.) Bry.; Hydrast.; Nua. Tela aranea (nerv-
ous asthma and sleeplessness),

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

TARTARICUM ACIDUM
(Tartaric Acid)

Great weakness, with diarrhea, with dry and brown
tongue. Continued vomiting. Burning in throat and
stomach. Pain in heels. [Phytol.}

Abdomen. — Pain around umbilicus and region of
loins. Stool color of coffee-grounds (worse at night),
with brown and dry tongue, and dark-green vomiting.

Dose. — Third trituration,
732 TAXUS BACCATA — TELLURIUM

TAXUS BACCATA
(Yew)

In pustular diseases of skin and night-sweats. Also in
gout and chronic rheumatism.

Head. — Supra-orbital and temporal pain on right
side, with lachrymation. Pupils dilated. Face puffy and
pale.

Stomach. — Saliva hot, acrid. Nausea. Pain in pit
of stomach and region of navel. After eating, cough.
Feeling of pins and needles at pit of stomach; of empti-
ness.

Skin. — Large, flat, itching pustules. Badly smelling
night-sweats. Podagra. Erysipelas.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency,

TELLURIUM
(The Metal Tellurium)

Marked skin (herpes circinatus), spinal, eye and ear
symptoms. Very sensitive back. Pains all over body.
Offensive discharges. Slow development of symptoms.
[Radium.]

Head. — Neglectful and forgetful. Pain in left side
of head and in forehead above left eye. Distortion and
twitching of left facial muscles; when speaking left
angle of mouth drawn upwards and to left. Fear of
being touched in sensitive places. Congestion to head
and nape of neck, followed by weakness and faintness
in stomach. Itching of scalp; red spots.

Eyes. — Lids thickened, inflamcd, itching. Pterygium;
pustular conjunctivitis. Cataract, following ocular
lesions; aid the absorption of infiltrations in iris and
choroid.
TELLURIUM 733

Ears. -— Eczema behind ear. Catarrh of middle ear;
discharge acrid, smells like fish-pickle. Itching, swell-
ing, throbbing in meatus. Deafness.

Nose. -— Coryza, lachrymation and hoarseness; better
in open air. [Cepa.] Obstructed; hawks salty phlegm
from posterior nares.

Stomach. — Craving for apples. Empty and weak
feeling. Heartburn.

Rectum. — Pruritus ani et perinei after every stool.

Back. — Pain in sacrum. Pain from last cervical to
fifth dorsal vertebra, very sensitive; worse touch.
(Chin. s.; Phosph.] Sciatica; worse right side, cough-
ing, straining, and at night, with sensitive vertebral
column. Contraction of tendons in bends of knees.

Skin. — Itching of hands and feet. Herpetic spots;
ringworm. [Tuberc.)  Ring-shape lesions, offensive
odors from affected parts. Barber's itch. Stinging in
skin. Fetid exhalations. [Sulph.] Offensive foot-
sweat. Eczema, back of ears and occiput. Circular
patches of eczema.

Modalities. — Worse, while at rest at night, cold
weather, from. friction, coughing, laughing, lying on
painful side, touch.

Relationship. — Compare: Radium; Selenium; Tet-
radymite (coccygodynia, ulceration of nails; pains in
ankles, heels, and tendo-Achilles) ; Sep.; Ars.; Rhus.

Dose. — Sixth potency and higher. Takes long time
to develop its action, which is very prolonged,
734 TEREBINTHINA

TEREBINTHINA
(Turpentine)

Has a selective affinity for bleeding mucous surfaces.
Tympanites and urinary symptoms very marked. In-
flammation of kidneys, with hemorrhages — dark, pas-
sive, fetid. Drowsiness and strangury. Coma. Un-
broken chilblains.

Head. — Dull pain like from a band around the head.
[Carb, ac.] Vertigo, with vanishing of vision. Cold in
head with sore nostrils with disposition to bleed.

Eyes.—Ciliary neuralgia over right eye. Intense
pain in eye and side of head. Amblyopia from alcohol.

Ears.— Own voice sounds unnatural; humming as
of a seashell, talking loudly is painful. Otalgia.

Mouth. — Tongue dry, red, sore, shining; burning in
tip, with prominent papille. [4rg. n.; Bell.; Kali b.;
Nux m.] Breath cold, foul. Choking sensation in
throat. Stomatitis. Dentition,

Stomach. — Nausea and vomiting; heat in epigastric
region.

Abdomen. — Enormous distention. Diarrhea; stools
watery, greenish, fetid, bloody. Hemorrhage from
bowels. Worms; lumbrici. Abdominal dropsy; pelvic
peritonitis. Fainting after every stool. Entero-colitis,
with hemorrhage and ulceration of bowels.

Urinary. — Strangury, with bloody urine.  Scanty,
suppressed, odor of violets. Urethritis, with painful
erections. [Canthar.] Inflamed kidneys following any
acute disease. Constant tenesmus.

Female. — Intense burning in uterine region. Me-
tritis; puerperal peritonitis. Metrorrhagia with burning
in uterus.

Respiratory. — Difficult breathing; jiungs feel dis-
tended; hemoptysis.
TEREBINTHINA — TEUCRIUM MARUM 735

Heart. — Pulse rapid, smali, thready, intermittent.

Back. — Burning pain in region of kidneys. Drawing
in right kidney extending to hip.

Skin. — Purpura, ecchymosis, dropsies. Scarlatina.
Chilblains; with excessive itching and pulsative pains.

Fever. — Heat, with violent thirst, dry tongue, pro-
fuse cold, clammy sweat, Typhoid with tympanites,
hemorrhages, stupor, delirium. Prostration,

Relationship. — Compare: Alumen; Secale; Canth.;
Nit. ac. Terebene 1x (subacute stages of inflammation
of respiratory tract. Loosens secretion, relieves tight-
ened feeling, makes expectoration easy). Neurotic
coughs. Huskiness of public speakers, and singers.

Antidote: Phos. Ononis spinosa — Rest Harrow —
(Diuretic, Lithontriptic). (Chronic nephritis; calculus ;
nosebleed, worse washing face.)

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

TEUCRIUM MARUM
(Cat-thyme)

Nasal and rectal symptoms marked. Polypi. Affec-
tions of children. Suitable after too much medicine
has been taken, Oversensitiveness. Desire to stretch.
A remedy of first importance in chronic nasal catarrh
with atrophy; farge, offensive crusts and clinkers.

sena. Loss of sense of smeil.

Head. — Excited, tremulous feeling. Frontal pain;
worse, stooping. Strengthens brain after delirium
tremens.

Eyes. — Smarting in canthi; lids red and puffy; tar-
sal tumor. [Staph.]

Ears. — Hissing and ringing otalgia.
7% TEUCRIUM MARUM — THALLIUM

Nose. — Catarrhal condition of both anterior and
posterior nostrils. Mucous polypus. Chronic catarrh;
discharge of large, irregular clinkers. Foul breath.
Crawling in nostrils, with lachrymation and sneezing.
Coryza, with stoppage of nostrils.

Stomach. — Vomiting of large quantities of dark-
green masses. Constant hiccough, attended with pain
in back. Unnatural appetite. Hiccough on eating, after
nursing,

Extremities. — Affection of finger-tips and joints of
toes. Tearing pains in arms and legs. Pains tm toe-
nails, as if they had grown into flesh.

Rectum. — Itching of anus, and constant irritation in
the evening in bed. Ascarides, with nightly restlessness.
Crawling in rectum after stool.

Sleep. — Restless, with twitching, choking, and start-
ing up frightened.

Skin. — Itching causes tossing about all night. Very
dry skin. Suppurating grooves in the nails,

Relationship—Compare: Tcucrium scorodonia (in
tuberculosis with muco-purulent expectoration; dropsy ;
orchitis and tuberculous cpididymitis; espectally in
young, thin individuals with tuberculosis of lungs,
glands; bones and urogenitals, 3x). Cina; Ignat.;
Sung.; Sil. ,

Dose. — First to sixth potency. Locally for polypi,
dry powder.

THALLIUM
(The Metal Thallium)

Relieves the violent pains in locomotor ataxia. Pa-
ralysis of lower limbs. Pain in stomach and bowels,
like electric shocks. Paraplegia. 4ilopecia. Night
sweats. Polyneuritis. Dermal trophic lesions.
7% TEUCRIUM MARUM — THALLIUM

Nose. — Catarrhal condition of both anterior and
posterior nostrils. Mucous polypus. Chronic catarrh;
discharge of large, irregular clinkers. Foul breath.
Crawling in nostrils, with lachrymation and sneezing.
Coryza, with stoppage of nostrils.

Stomach. — Vomiting of large quantities of dark-
green masses. Constant hiccough, attended with pain
in back. Unnatural appetite. Hiccough on eating, after
nursing,

Extremities. — Affection of finger-tips and joints of
toes. Tearing pains in arms and legs. Pains tm toe-
nails, as if they had grown into flesh.

Rectum. — Itching of anus, and constant irritation in
the evening in bed. Ascarides, with nightly restlessness.
Crawling in rectum after stool.

Sleep. — Restless, with twitching, choking, and start-
ing up frightened.

Skin. — Itching causes tossing about all night. Very
dry skin. Suppurating grooves in the nails,

Relationship—Compare: Tcucrium scorodonia (in
tuberculosis with muco-purulent expectoration; dropsy ;
orchitis and tuberculous cpididymitis; espectally in
young, thin individuals with tuberculosis of lungs,
glands; bones and urogenitals, 3x). Cina; Ignat.;
Sung.; Sil. ,

Dose. — First to sixth potency. Locally for polypi,
dry powder.

THALLIUM
(The Metal Thallium)

Relieves the violent pains in locomotor ataxia. Pa-
ralysis of lower limbs. Pain in stomach and bowels,
like electric shocks. Paraplegia. 4ilopecia. Night
sweats. Polyneuritis. Dermal trophic lesions.
THALLIUM — THASPIUM AUREUM 737

Extremities. — Trembling. Paralytic feeling. Lan-
cinating pains, like electric shocks. Very tired. Chronic
myelitis. Numbness in fingers and toes, with exten-
sion up lower extremities, involving lower abdomen
and perineum. Paralysis of lower limbs. Cyanosis of
extremities. Formication, beginning in fingers and ex-
tending through pelvis, perineum and inner thighs to
feet.

Relationship.—Compare: Lathyr.; Caust.; Arg. nit.;
Plumbua,

Dose. — Lower trituration to thirtieth potency.

THASPIUM AUREUM —ZIZIA
(Meadow Parsnip)

Hysteria, epilepsy, chorea, hypochondriasis, come
within the sphere of this remedy.

Mind. — Suicidal; depressed; laughing and weeping
moods alternate.

Head. — Pressure on top, in right temple, associated
with backache,

Male.— Great lassitude following coitus. Sexual
power increased.

Female. — Intermittent neuralgia of left ovary. Acrid,
profuse leucorrhcea, with retarded menses.

Respiratory.—- Dry cough, with stitches in chest.
Dyspneea.

Extremities. — Unusual tired feeling. Chorea, espe-
cially during sleep. Fidgety legs. (Tarant.] Lame-
ness in arms and spasmodic twitching.

Modalities. — Worse, during sleep.

Relationship.— Compare: Agar.; Stram.; Tarant.;
Cicuta; Ethusa.

Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.
738 THEA

THEA
(Tea)

Nervous sleeplessness, heart troubles, palpitation, and
dyspepsia of old tea-drinkers,

Head. — Temporary mental exaltation. Ill-humored,
Sick headache radiating from one point. Sleepless and
restless. Hallucinations of hearing. Cold damp feeling
at back of head.

Stomach, — Sinking sensation at episgastrium. Faint,
gone feelng. [Sep.; Hyd.; Oleand,} Craves acids,
Sudden production of wind in large quantities.

Abdomen. — Borborygmi. Liability to hernia.

Female.— Soreness and tenderness in ovaries.
[Lach., Naja; Vespa.]

Heart. — Anxious oppression. Przcordial distress.
Palpitation; unable to lie on left side. Fluttering.
Pulse rapid, irregular, intermittent.

Sleep. — Sleepy in daytime; sleepiness at night, with
vascular excitement and restlessness, and dry skin.
Horrible dreams cause no horror,

Modalities. — }¥’0: se, night, on walking in open air,
after meals. Better warmth: warm bath.

Relationship. — Antidote: Kali hypophos.; Thuja;
Ferr.; Beer, (Coffee-drinkers should drink wine: tea
drinkers should drink beer.)

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency,

Theine %4-%4 grain hypodérmically for sciatica and
supraorbital neuralgia.
THERIDION 739

THERIDION
(Orange- spider)

Vertigo, sick headache, peculiar pain around heart
region, phthisis florida, scrofula have all been treated
successfully with this remedy. Sensitive to noise; 1
penetrates the body, especially teeth. Rachitis, caries,
necrosis, Phthisis, stitch high up in left apex. [An-
thrax.} Where the indicated remedy does not hold
long

Mind. — Restless; finds pleasure in nothing. Time
passes too quickly.

Head.— Pain worse anyone walking over floor.
Vertigo, with nausca and vomiting on Icast motion, par-
ticularly when closing eyes.

Eyes. — Luminous vibrations before eyes; sensitive
to light. Pressure bebind eyeballs. Throbbing over left
eye.

Nose. — Discharge yellowish, thick, offensive; ozzna.
[Puls.; Thuja.]

Stomach. — Seasickness. Nausea and vomiting
when closing eyes and on motion, [Tabac.] Stinging
pain on left side over anterior aspect of spleen. Burn-
ing in liver region.

Respiratory.— Pain in upper left chest. [Afyrt.;
Pix.; Anis.) Pain in left floating ribs, Catdiac anxiety
and pain, Pinching in left pectoral muscle.

Back. — Sensitiveness between vertebre; avoids
pressure on spine. [Agar.,; Bell.; Chin. s.; Lach.; Phos.;
Zinc.] Stinging pains.

Skin. — Stinging thrusts everywhere. Sensitive skin
in thighs. Itching sensations,

Modalities. —Worse, touch; pressure; on shipboard;
740 THERIDION—THIOSINAMINUM—THLASPI BUR. PAS.

riding in carriage; closing eyes; jar; noise; coitus; left
side.

Dose. — Thirtieth potency.

THIOSINAMINUM
(A Chemical Derived from Oil of Mustard-seed)

A resolvent, externally and internally, for dissolving
scar tissue, tumors, enlarged glands; lupus, strictures,
adhesions. Ectropion, opacities of cornea, cataract,
ankylosis, fibroids, scleroderma. Noises in ear. Sug-
gested by Dr. A. S. Hard for retarding old age. A
remedy for Tabes dorsalis, improving the lightning
pains. Gastric, vesicle and rectal crises.

Ear. — Tinnitus. Catarrhal deafness with cicatricial
thickening. Sub-acute suppurative otitis media, forma-
tion of fihrous bands impeding free movement of the
ossicles. Thickened drum. Deafness due to some
fibrous change in the nerve.

Dose. — Inject under skin, or, into the lesion a 10
per cent, solution in glycerine and water, 15-30 drops
twice a week. Internally in capsules 1% grain daily.
2x attenuation.

THLASPI BURSA PASTORIS — CAPSELLA
(Shepherd’s Purse)

Is an anti-hemorrhagic and anti-uric-acid remedy.
Albuminuria during gestation. Chronic neuralgia.
Renal and vesical irritation. Hamorrhage from uterine
fibroid; uterine hemorrhage, with cramps and expul-
sion of clots.

Head.— Eyes and face puffy. Frequent epistaxis.
THLASPI BURSA PASTORIS—-THUJA OCCIDENTALIS 741

Vertigo; worse, rising. Frontal pain; worse toward
evening. Scaly eruption behind ears. Tongue white,
coated. Mouth and lips cracked. .

Nose. — Biceding in nasal operations. Especially
passive hemorrhage.

Male. — Spermatic cord sensitive to concussion of
walking or riding.

Female. — Metrorrhagia; too frequent and copious
menses, Hemorrhage, with violent uterine colic. Every
alternate period very profuse. Leucorrheea before and
after menses; bloody, dark, offensive. Sore pain in
womb on rising. Scarcely recovers from one period
beore another begins.

Urinary. — Frequent desire; urine heavy, phosphatic.
Chronic cystitis. Dysuria and spasmodic retention.
Hematuria. Accumulation of gravel. Renal colic.
RBrick-dust sediment. Urethritis; urine runs away in
little jets. Often replaces the use of the catheter.

Relationship. — Compare: Urtica; Croc.;  Trill.;
Millefol,

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth potency.

THUJA OCCIDENTALIS
_ (Arbor vite)

Acts on skin, blood, gastro-intestinal tract, kidneys,
and brain.

The main action of Thuja is on the skin and genito-
urinary organs, producing conditions that correspond
with Hahnemann’s sycotic dyscrasia, whose chief mani-
festation is the formation of wart-like excrescences upon
mucous and cutaneous surfaces — fig-warts and condy-
742 THUJA OCCIDENTALIS

lomata. Has a specific antibacterial action, as in gon-
orrheea and vaccination. Suppressed gonorrhcea, sal-
pingitis. Ill-effects of vaccination. Hydrogenoid con-
stitutions, whose blood is morbidly hydroscopic, so that
damp air and water are inimical. [Nat. s.] Complaints
from moonlight. Rapid exhaustion and emactation.
Left-sided and chilly medicine.

Mind. — Fired ideas, as if a strange person were at
his side; as if soul and body were separated; as if
something alive in abdomen. [Croc.] Emotional sen-
sitiveness; music causes weeping and trembling.

Head. — Pain as if pierced by a nail. [Coff.; Ign.]
Neuralgia from tea. ([Selen.] Left-sided headache.
White, scaly dandruff; hair dry and falling out.

Eyes. — Ciliary neuralgia; iritis. Eyelids agglutin-
ated at night; dry, scaly, Styes and tarsal tumors,
[Staph.] Acute and subacute inflammation of sclera.
Sclera raised in patches, and looks bluish-red. Large,
flat phlyctenules; indolent. Recurring  episcleritis.
Chronic scleritis. .

Ears. — Chronic otitis; discharge purulent. Creak-
ing when swallowing. Polypi.

Nose. — Chronic catarrh; chick, green mucus; blood
and pus. On blowing nose, pain in teeth. Ulceration
within the nostrils. Dryness of nasal cavities. Painful
pressure at root.

Mouth. — Tip of tongue very painful. White blisters
on side close to roct, painfully sore. Teeth decay next
to gums, very sensitive; gums retract. Drinks iall
audibly into stomach. Kanula; varicose veins on
tongue and mouth. [4mb.] Pyorrhcea alveolaris.

Stomach. — Complete loss of appetite. Dislike for
fresh meat and potatoes. Rancid eructations after fat
THUJA OCCIDENTALIS 743

food. Cutting pain in epigastfium. Cannot’ eat onions.
Flatulence; pain after food; sinking sensation in epi-
gastrium before food; thirst. Tea-drinking dyspepsia.

Abdomen. — Distended; indurations in abdomen.
Chronic diarrhoea, worse after breakfast. Discharges
forcibly expelled; gurgling sound. Brown spots. Flatw-
lence and distention; protruding here and there. Rum-
bling and colic. Constipation, with violent rectal pain,
causing stool to recede. [Sil.; Sanic.] Piles swollen;
pain worse sitting. Anus fissured; painful to touch, with
warts. Movement as of something lwing [Crocus],
without pain.

Urinary. — Urethra swollen, inflamed. Urinary
stream split and small, Sensation of trickling after
urinating. Severe cutting after. [Sars.] Frequent
micturition accompanying pains. Desire sudden and
urgent, but cannot be controlled. Paralysis sphincter
vesice.

Male. — Inflammation of prepuce and gians; pain
in penis, Balanitis. Gonorrhaal rheumatism. Gonor-
rhea (tincture). Pain and burning felt near neck of
bladder, with frequent and urgent desire to urinate.
Prostatic enlargement. [Ferr, pic.; Thiosinamium, lod. ;
Sabal.]

Female.— Vagina very sensitive. [Berb.; Kreos.;
Lyssin.] Warty excrescences on vulva and perineum.
Profuse leucorrhcea; thick, greenish. Severe pain in
left ovary and left inguinal region. Menses scanty,
retarded. Polyps; fleshy excrescences. Ovaritis; worse
left side, at every menstrual period. {Lach.}

Respiratory. — Dry, hacking cough in afternoon, with
pain in pit of stomach, Stitches in chest; worse, cold
drinks. Asthma in children. (Nat. sulph.] Papilloma
of larynx. Chronic laryngitis.
744 THUJA OCCIDENTALIS

Extremities. — When walking, limbs feel as if made
of wood or glass, and would break easily. Tips of
fingers swollen, red, feel dead. Muscular twitchings,
weakness and trembling.

Skin. — Polypi, tubercles, warts epithelioma, nzva,
carbuncles; ulcers, especially in ano-genital region.
Freckles and blotches. Perspiration sweetish, and strong.
Dry skin, with brown spots. Zona; herpetic eruptions.
Tearing pains in glands. Glandular enlargement. Nails
crippled; brittle and soft. Eruptions only on covered
parts; worse after scratching. Very sensitive to touch.
Coldness of one side.

Sleep. — Persistent insomnia.

Fever. — Chill, beginning in thighs, Sweat only on
uncovered parts, or all over except head, when sleeping;
profuse, sour, smeiling like honey. Orgasm of blood in
the evening, with throbbing in the blood-vessels.

Modalities. — IV orse, at night, from heat of bed; at
3.a.M. and 3 Pp. M., from cold, damp air; after breakfast;
coffee; vaccination. Better, left side; while drawing up
a limb.

Relationship.—Compare: Cupressus australis (sharp,
prickling pain; general feeling of warmth; rheumatism
and gonorrhea). Cupressus Lawsoniana (acts like
Thuja; terrible pains in the stomach). Sphingurus
(falling out of hair from beard; pain in jaw-joint
and zygoma); Ant. tart.; Sil.; Maland. (vaccination) ;
Medorrh, (suppressed gonorrhea); Merc.; Cinnab.;
Terebinth.; Juniperus; Sabin.; Sil; Canth.; Cannab.;
Nit. ac.; Puls.; Arborin is a non-alcoholic preparation
of, Thuja.

Antidotes: Merc.: Camph.; Sabin. (warts).
Complementary: Sabina; Ars.; Nat. sulph.;, Silica.
THUJA OCCI. — THYMOL— THYMUS SERPYLLUM 745

Dose. — Locally, for warts and excrescences, tinc-
ture, or cerate. Internally, tincture to thirtieth potency.

THYMOL
(Thyme Camphor)

A remedy having a wide field in genito-urinary dis-
eases. It is indicated in pathological emissions, spermato-
cystitis, priapism and prostatorrhcea.

The provings show an action limited to the sexual
organs, producing a typical sexual neurasthenia. Specific
for hook-worm disease. [Chenopodium.]

Mental. — Irritable, arbitrary, must have his own
way. Craves company, Energy gone.

Back. — Tired, aching throughout lumbar region,
Worse, mental and physical labor.

Male. — Profuse, nightly, seminal emissions with
lascivious dreams of a perverted character. Priapism.
Urinary Lurning and subsequent dribbling of urine.
Polyuria. Urates increased. Phosphates decreased.

Sleep. — Awakes tired and unrefreshed. Lascivious
and fantastic dreams, .

Modalities, — }4’orse, mental and physical labor.

Dose. — Sixth attenuation.

THYMUS SERPYLLUM
(Wild Thyme)

Respiratory infections of children; dry nervous asthma,
whooping cough, severe spasms but little sputum. |

Ringing in ears with feeling of pressure in head.
Burning in pharynx, sore throat worse empty swallow-
ing; blood vessels distended, dark.

Dose. — Tincture.
746 THYROIDINUM

THYROIDINUM
(Dried Thyroid Gland of the Sheep)

Thyroid produces anemia, emaciation, muscular weak-
ness, sweating, headache, nervous tremor of face and
limbs, tmgling sensations, paralyses. Heart rate in-
creased, exophthalmus and dilatation of pupils. In
myxvadema and erctinism its effects are striking. Rheu-
matoid arthritis. Infantile wasting. Rickets. Delayed
union of fractures. In half grain doses twice a day
over a considerable period said to he effective in un-
descended testicle in boys. Thyroid exercises a general
regulating influence over the mechanism of the organs
of nutrition, growth and development. Thyroid weak-
ness causes decided craving for large amount of sweets.

Of use in psoriasis; and tachycardia. Arrested de-
velopment in children. Improves the memory. Gottre.
Excessive obesity. Acts better with pale patients, rather
than those of high colour. Aimblyupia. Mammary tumor
Uterine fibroid. Great weakness and hunger, yet loses
flesh. Nocturnal enuresis, Agalactea. Begin treatment
early in pregnancy. Dose 1!4 gr. 2 to 3 times daily.
Vomiting of pregnancy (give early in morning before
patient gets up). Fibroid tumors of the b1cast, 2x trit.
Dilates arterioles. [Adrenalin contracts them.] Sen-
sation of faintness and nausea,

Mind. — Stupor, alternating with restless melan-
choly, Irritable, worse least opposition; goes into a rage’
over trifles.

Head. -—- Frontal headache, Eyeballs prominent.
Face flushed; lips burn. Tongue thickly coated.

Heart. — Weak, frequent pulse, with inability to lie
down. Tachycardia. [Naja.] Anxiety about chest, as
if constricted. Palpitation from least exertion. Severe
heart pain. Ready excitability of heart. Heart’s action
weak.
746 THYROIDINUM

THYROIDINUM
(Dried Thyroid Gland of the Sheep)

Thyroid produces anemia, emaciation, muscular weak-
ness, sweating, headache, nervous tremor of face and
limbs, tmgling sensations, paralyses. Heart rate in-
creased, exophthalmus and dilatation of pupils. In
myxvadema and erctinism its effects are striking. Rheu-
matoid arthritis. Infantile wasting. Rickets. Delayed
union of fractures. In half grain doses twice a day
over a considerable period said to he effective in un-
descended testicle in boys. Thyroid exercises a general
regulating influence over the mechanism of the organs
of nutrition, growth and development. Thyroid weak-
ness causes decided craving for large amount of sweets.

Of use in psoriasis; and tachycardia. Arrested de-
velopment in children. Improves the memory. Gottre.
Excessive obesity. Acts better with pale patients, rather
than those of high colour. Aimblyupia. Mammary tumor
Uterine fibroid. Great weakness and hunger, yet loses
flesh. Nocturnal enuresis, Agalactea. Begin treatment
early in pregnancy. Dose 1!4 gr. 2 to 3 times daily.
Vomiting of pregnancy (give early in morning before
patient gets up). Fibroid tumors of the b1cast, 2x trit.
Dilates arterioles. [Adrenalin contracts them.] Sen-
sation of faintness and nausea,

Mind. — Stupor, alternating with restless melan-
choly, Irritable, worse least opposition; goes into a rage’
over trifles.

Head. -—- Frontal headache, Eyeballs prominent.
Face flushed; lips burn. Tongue thickly coated.

Heart. — Weak, frequent pulse, with inability to lie
down. Tachycardia. [Naja.] Anxiety about chest, as
if constricted. Palpitation from least exertion. Severe
heart pain. Ready excitability of heart. Heart’s action
weak.
THYROIDINUM — TILIA EUROPA 747

Urinary. — Increased flow; polyuria; some albumen
and sugar. Enurests in weakly children who are nerv-
ous and irritable (14 gr. night and morning). Urine
smells of violets, burning along urethra, increase of
uric acid,

Extremities. — Aching pains. (Edema of legs.

Respiratory. --- Dry, painful cough with scanty, diffi-
cult expectoration and burning in pharynx.

Skin. -—- Psoriasis associated with adipnsity (not in
developing stage). Skin dry, impoverished. Cold hands
and feet. Eczema. Uterine fibroids. Brawny swelling.
Swelling of glands of stony hardness. Sluggish cases.
Jaundice with pruritus. Ichthyosis, lupus.

Relationship. -—- Compare: Sponyta; Calc.; Fucus;
Lycopus; Jodothyrine, the active principle isolated from
thyroid gland, a substance rich in Iodine and nitrogen,
affects metabolism, reducing weight, may produce glyco-
suria. Use cautiously in obesity, for a fatty heart may
not be able to maintain the accelerated rhythm. Milk
contains the internal secretion of the thyroid. . Thymus
Gland extract (arthritis deformans; metabolic osteoar-
thritis, 5-grain tablets 3 times daily).

Dose.— Crude Thyroid at times; better sixth to
thirtieth potency. If the crude Thyroid is taken (two
to three grains or more daily); the pulse should be
watched. Must not be given in physiological doses
where with feebie heart there is high blood pressure
and not in tubercular patients.

TILIA EUROPA
(Linden)

Of value in muscular weakness of the eye; haemor-
rhage of thin, pale blood. Puerpera! metritis. Diseases
of the antrum. ]Kali hyd.; Chelid.]
748 TILIA EUROPA — TITANIUM

Head. — Neuralgia (first right, then left side), with
veil before eyes. Confusion, with dimness of vision.
Much sneezing, with fluent coryza. Bleeding from nose.

Eyes. — Sensation as of gauze before eyes. [Calc.;
Caust.; Nat. m.] Binocular vision imperfect.

Female. — Intense sore feeling about uterus; bearing-
down, with hot sweat, but without relief. Much slimy
leucorrhoa when walking. [Bov.; Carb. an.; Graph.]
Soreness and redness of external genitals. [Thuj.;
Sulph.| Pelvic inflammation, tympanites, abdominal
tenderness and hot sweat which does not relieve.

Skin. — Urticaria. Violent itching, and burning like
fire after scratching. Eruption of small, red itching
pimples. Sweat warm and profuse soon after falling
asleep. Sweat increases as rheumatic pains increase.

Modalities, — Worse, in afternoon and evening; in
warm room, heat of bed. Better, cool room, motion.
Relationship. — Compare: Lilium; Bellad.

Dose. — Tincture, to sixth potency.

TITANIUM
(The Metal)

Is found in the bones and muscles. Has been used:
in lupus and tuberculosis processes externally. also in
skin disease, nasal catarrh, etc. Apples contain 0.11
per cent. of Titan. Imperfect vision, the peculiarity
being that haif an object only could be seen at once.
Vertical hemiopia, Also, sexual ‘weakness, with too early
ejaculation of semen in cuitus. Bright’s disease.

Dose. — Lower and middle potencies.
TONGO — TRIBULUS TERRESTRIS “749

TONGO
(Tonka-bean — Diptrix odorata)

In neuralgia ; pertussis.

Head.— Tearing pain in supra-orbital nerve, with
heat and throbbing pain in head and epiphora. Con-
fused, especially the occiput, with somnolence and a sort
of intoxication. Trembling in right upper lid. Coryza;
nose stopped, must breathe through mouth.

Extremities. — Tearing pains in hip-joints, femur,
and knee, especially left side.

Relationship. — Melilotus, Anthoxanthum, Asperula,
and Tonga contain Coumarin, the active principle.
Compare them in hay-fever: also, 7rifol.; Napth.;
Sabad,

Dose. — Tincture and Jower potencies.

TRIBULUS TERRESTRIS
(Ikshugandha) ©«.-**

An East Indian drug useful in urinary affections,
especially dysuria, and in debilitated states of the sexual
organs, as expressed in seminal weakness, ready emis-
ions and impoverished semen. Prostatitis, calculous
affections and sexual neurasthenia. It meets the auto-
traumatism of masturbation, correcting the emissions and
spermatorrheea. Partial impotence caused by overindul-
gence of advancing age, or when accompanied by urinary
symptoms, incontinence, painful micturition, etc.

Dose. —- Ten to twenty drops of the tincture three
times daily,
750° “TRIFOLIUM PRATENSE—TRILLIUM PENDULUM

TRIFOLIUM PRATENSE
(Red Clover). .

Produces most marked ptyalism, Feeling of fullness
with congestion of salivary glands, followed by increased
copious flow of saliva. Feeling as if mumps were
coming on. Crusta lactea; dry, scaly crusts. Stiff neck.
Canccrous diathesis.

Mouth. — Increased flow cf saliva. (Merc.; Syphil.]
Sore throat, with hoarseness.

Respiratory. — Coryza like that which precedes hay-
fever; thin mucus, with much irritation. Hoarse and
choking; chills at night, with cough. Cough on coming
into the open air. Hay-fever. Spasmodic cough;
whooping cough, paroxysms; worse at night.

Back. — Neck stiff; cramp in sterno-cleido muscles;
relieved by heat and irritation.

Extremities. — Tingling in palms. Hands and fect
cold. Tibial ulcers.

Relationship. — Compare: Trifolium repens — White
clover — (Prophylactic against mumps, feeling of con-
gestion in salivary glafids, pain and hardening, espe-
cially submaxillary; worse, lying down. Mouth filled
with watery saliva, worse lying down. Taste of blood
in mouth and throat. Sensation as if heart would stop,
with great fear, better sitting up or moving about;
worse, when alone. with cold sweat on face.)

Dose. — Tincture.

TRILLIUM PENDULUM
(White Beth-root)

A general bhamorrhagic medicine, zwtth great fatniness
and dissiness. Chronic diarrhoea of bloody mucus.
Uterine hemorrhage. Theatened abortion. Relaxe-
tion of pelvic region, Cramp-like pains. Phthisis with
purulent and copious expectoration and spitting of blood.
TRILLIUM PENDULUM 751

Head. — Pain in forehead; worse, noise, Confused;
eyeballs feel too large. Vision blurred; everything looks
bluish. Nosebleed. ([Millef.; Melilot.]

Mouth. — Hemorrhage from gums. Bleeding after
tooth extraction.

Stomach. — Heat and burning in stomach rising up
in cesophagus. Hamatemcesis.

Rectum. — Chronic diarrhoea; discharge bloudy. Dys-
entery; passage almost pure blood.

Female. -— Uterine haemorrhages, with sensation as
though hips and back were falling to pieces; better tight
bandages. Gushing of bright blood on least movement.
Hemorrhage from fibroids. [Calc.; Nitr. ac.; Phos.;
Sulph. ac.) Prolapse, with great bearing-down. Leu-
corrheea copious, yellow, stringy. [Hydras.; Kali b.;
Sabin.) Metrorrhagia at climacteric. Lochia suddenly
becomes sanguinous. Dribbling cf urine after labor.

Respiratory. — Cough, with spitting of blood. Copi-
ous, purulent expectoration. Hemoptysis. Aching at
end of sternum, Suffocative attack of irregular breath-
ing with sneezing. Shooting pains through chest.

Relationship—Compare: Vaccinum myrtillus (dys-
entery, acute and chronic typhoid, keeps intestines
aseptic and prevents absorption and reinfection (Ber-
ries); Trillium cernuum (eye symptoms) everything
looks bluish; greasy feeling in mouth); Ficus (hemor-
rhages ; menorrhagia, hematuria, epistaxis, hemateme-
sis, bleeding piles); Sanguisuga — Leech — (hemor-
rhages; heeding from anus). Jpec.; Sab.; Lach.;
Hamam.

Dose. — Tincture and lower potencies.
752 TRIOSTEUM PERFOLIATUM -—— TRITICUM

TRIOSTEUM PERFOLIATUM
(Fever-root)

Triosteum is a very valuable remedy in diarrhcea at-
tended with colicky pains and nausea, numbness of lower
limbs after stool, and increased flow of urine; also in
influenza. Quiets nervous symptoms, [Coffea.; Hyos.}
Biliousness. Bilious colic.

Head. — Occipital pain, with nausea on rising, fol-
lowed by vomiting. Influenza, with aching pains all
over, and heat in the limbs. Osena; frontal pain.

Stomach. — Loathing of food; nausea on rising, fol-
lowed by vomiting and cramps. Stools watery, frothy.

Extremities. — Stiffness of all joints; calves numb;
aching in bones. Rheumatic pain in back. Pains in
limbs.

Skin. — Itching welts. Urticaria from gastric de-
rangement.

Dose. — Sixth potency.

TRITICUM --AGROPYRON REPENS
(Couch-Grass)

An excellent remedy in excessive irritability of the
bladder, dysuria, cystitis, gonorrhea.

Nose, — Always blowing nose.

Urinary. — Frequent, difficult, and pamful urination.
[Pop.] Gravelly deposits, Catarrhal and purulent dis-
charges. [Pareira.] Strangury, pyelitis; enlarged
prostate. Chronic cystic irritability. Incontinence; con-
stant desire. Urine is dense and causes irritation of
the mucous surfaces.

Relationship. —- Compare: Tradescantia (painful
urination, urethral discharge; scrotum inflamed).
Chimaph.; Senecio; Populus trem.
TRITICUM — TROMBIDIUM — TUBERCULINUM 753

Dose. — Tincture or infusion by boiling two ounces
in a quart of water until it is reduced to a pint. To be
taken in four doses in 24 hours.

TROMBIDIUM
(Red acarus of the fly)

Has a specific place in the treatment of dysentery.
Symptoms are worse by food and drink.

Abdomen.-- Much pain before and after stool;
stool only after eating. Griping in hypochondrium in
morning. Congestion of the liver, with urgent, loose,
stools on rising. Brown, thin, bloody stools, with tenes-
mus, During stool, sharp pain in left side, shooting
downward. Burning in anus.

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

TUBERCULINUM
(A Nucleo-protein, a Nosode from Tubercular
Abscess)

Tuberculinum is indicated in renal affections, but cau-
tion is necessary, for where skin and intestines do not
perform normally even high potencies are dangerous.
In chronic cystitis, brilliant and permanent results. (Dr.
Nebel Montreux.)

-Of undoubted value in the treatment of incipient
tuberculosis. Especially adapted to the light-com-
plexioned, narrow-chested subjects, Lax fiber, low
recuperative powers, and very susceptible to changes in
the weather. Patient always tired; motion causes in-
tense fatigue; aversion to work; wants constant changes.
When symptoms are constantly changing and well-
selected remedies fail to improve, and cold is ‘taken
754 TUBERCULINUM

from the slightest cxposure. Rapid emaciation. Of
great value in epilepsy, neurasthenia and in nervous
children. Skin affections, acute articular rheumatism.
Very sensitive, mentally and physically. General ex-
haustion, Nervous weakness, Trembling. Epilepsy.

Mind. — Contradictory characteristics of Tubercu-
linum are mania and melancholia; insomnia and sopor.
Irritable, especially when awakening. Depressed, melan-
choly. Fear of dogs. <clnimals especially. Desire to use
foul language, curse and swear.

Head. — Subject to deep brain headaches and in-
tense neuralgias. Everything seems strange. Intense
pain, as of an iron band around head. Meningitis.
When critical discharges appear, sweat, polyuria, diar-
rhoea, exanthema, repeating the dose only when crises’
come on. Noctural hallucinations, awakes frightened.
Plica polonica. [Vinca.] Crops of small boils, in-
tensely painful, successively appear in the nose; green,
fetid pus.

Ears. — Persistent, offensive otorrhoea. Perforation
in mebrana tympani, with ragged edges.

Stomach. — Averse to meat, All-gone, hungry sen-
sation. [Sulph.] Desire for cold milk.

Abdomen. — Early-morning, sudden diarrhcea.
[Sulph.} Stools dark-brown, offensive, discharged with
much force. Tabes mesenterica.

Female. — Benign mammary tumors, Menses too
early, too protuse, long-lasting. Dysmenorrheea. Pains:
increase with the establishment of the flow.

Respiratory. — Hard, dry cough during slcep. Ex-
pectoration thick, easy; profuse brouchurrhcea. Short-
ness of breath. Sensation of suftocation, even with
plenty of fresh air. Longs for cold air.

Back. — Tension in nape of neck and down spine.
Chilliness between shoulders or up the back.
TUBERCULINUM 755

Skin. — Chronic eczema; itching intense; worse at
night. Ringworm. .[Tellur.] Acne in tuberculous
children. Measles; psoriasis [Thyroid.]

Sleep. — Poor; wakes early. Overpowering sleepi-
ness in daytime. Dreams vivid and distressing.

Fever. — Post-critical temperature of a remittent
type. Here repeat dose every two hours. (MacFarlan.)
Profuse sweat. General chilliness.

Modalities. -- Worse, motion, music; before a storm;
standing: dampness; from draught; early morning, and
after sleep. Better, open air.

Relationship.—Compare: Koch's Ivmph (acute
parenchymatous nephritis; produces pneumonia, bron-
cho-pneumonia, and congestion of the lungs in tuber-
culous patients, and is a remarkably efficacious remedy
in lobular pneumonia — broncho-pneumonia) ; Aviaire
— Tuberculin from birds -- (acts on the apices of the
lungs; has proved an excellent remedy in influenzal
bronchitis; symptoms similar to tuberculosis; relieves the
debility, diminishes the cough, improves the appetite, and
braces up the whole organism; acute broncho-pulmonary
diseases of children: itching of palms and ears; cough,
acute, inflammatory, irritating, incessant, and tickling;
loss of strength and appetite); Hydrast. (to fatten
patients after Tuberc.): Formic acid’ (tuberculosis,
chronic nephritis, malignant tumors; pulmonary tuber-
culosis, not in third stage, however; lupus; carcinoma
of breast and stomach; Dr. Krull uses injections of
solutions corresponding to the third centesimal potency ;
these must not’ be repeated before six months). Com-
pare: Bacil.; Psorin.; Lach. Kalagua (tuberculosis;
garlicky odor of all secretions and breath). Tesucrium
scoradonia,

Complementary: Calcarea; China; Bryon.
756 TUBERCULINUM

Dose. — Thirtieth and much higher, in infrequent
doses. When Tuberculinum fails Syphilinum often
follows advantageously, producing a reaction.

The use of Tuberculinum in phthisis pulmonalis de-
mands attention to the following points: In apyretic
purely tubercular phthisis results are marked, provided
the eliminative organs are in good order, but nothing
below the 1000th should be used, unless absolutely nec-
essary. With patients where strepto-staphylo-pneumo-
cocci are in the bronchi; where also, after washing the
sputum, a pure “t. b.” bacilli-mass remains, the same
treatment is indicated. With mixed infection — found
in the majority of cases— where the sputum swarms
with virulent micro-organisms in addition to the “t. b.,”
other procedure is necessary. If the heart is in good
shape, a single dose of Tuberculinum 1000-2000 is given,
provided there are no marked indications: for other
remedies. With due attention to temperature and possi-
ble critical excretiuns, the dose is allowed to work until
effects are no longer observed, eight days to eight weeks.
Usually a syndrome then presents, permitting the ac-
curate choice of an antipsoric Silica, Lycopodium, Phos-
phorus, etc. After a while the picture again darkens
and now a high potency of the isopathic remedy corre-
sponding to the most virulent and prominent micro-
organism found in the sputum is given: Staphylo-,
Strepto-, or Pneumococcin. The accurate bacteriologi-
cal analysis of the sputum is absolutely essential; the
choice of the ison again clears the picture, and so, pro-
ceeding on the one side etiologically (where these iso-
pathica have not yet been proved); on the other side
symptomatically with antipsoric remedies, the disease is
dominated.

My own experience warns, in the case of mixed in-
fection, against the use of Strepto-, Staphylo-, or
756 TUBERCULINUM

Dose. — Thirtieth and much higher, in infrequent
doses. When Tuberculinum fails Syphilinum often
follows advantageously, producing a reaction.

The use of Tuberculinum in phthisis pulmonalis de-
mands attention to the following points: In apyretic
purely tubercular phthisis results are marked, provided
the eliminative organs are in good order, but nothing
below the 1000th should be used, unless absolutely nec-
essary. With patients where strepto-staphylo-pneumo-
cocci are in the bronchi; where also, after washing the
sputum, a pure “t. b.” bacilli-mass remains, the same
treatment is indicated. With mixed infection — found
in the majority of cases— where the sputum swarms
with virulent micro-organisms in addition to the “t. b.,”
other procedure is necessary. If the heart is in good
shape, a single dose of Tuberculinum 1000-2000 is given,
provided there are no marked indications: for other
remedies. With due attention to temperature and possi-
ble critical excretiuns, the dose is allowed to work until
effects are no longer observed, eight days to eight weeks.
Usually a syndrome then presents, permitting the ac-
curate choice of an antipsoric Silica, Lycopodium, Phos-
phorus, etc. After a while the picture again darkens
and now a high potency of the isopathic remedy corre-
sponding to the most virulent and prominent micro-
organism found in the sputum is given: Staphylo-,
Strepto-, or Pneumococcin. The accurate bacteriologi-
cal analysis of the sputum is absolutely essential; the
choice of the ison again clears the picture, and so, pro-
ceeding on the one side etiologically (where these iso-
pathica have not yet been proved); on the other side
symptomatically with antipsoric remedies, the disease is
dominated.

My own experience warns, in the case of mixed in-
fection, against the use of Strepto-, Staphylo-, or
TUBERCULINUM 757

Pneumococcin below the 500th. I use them only from
2000 to 1000, having seen terrible aggravations from
the 30, 100, 200, with a lowering temperature from 104
to 96. Hence the admonition, which need not concern
scoffers, but those alone who wish to avail themselves
of a potent weapon. The toxins used as remedies are,
like Tuberculinum, prepared from pure and virulent
cultures.

And cases, seemingly condemned to speedy death, are
brought in a year or two back to normal temperature,
though, of course, sacrificing a large portion of lung
tissue. This result is sure when the patient can and
will take care of himself, where the heart has withstood
the toxin, and the stomach and liver are in good func-
tion. Further, climatic variations must be avoided.
With the great mineral metabolism of the phthisic,
diet regulation is imperatve, and should be preponder-
ately vegetable, together with the addition of physiolog-
ical salts in low potency, Calcarea carb., 3x, 5x, Calcarea
phos., 2x, 6x, and intercurrently according to indica-
tions organ-remedies as Cactus Tr. 30, Chelidonium
Tr. 30, Taraxacum Tr., Nasturtium Tr., Urtica urens
Tr., Tussilago farfara Tr., Lysimachia numularia Tr.,
for short periods.

The first dose of Tuberculinum in any difficult case is,
however, the most weighty prescription. The remedy
should not be given without a most careful cardiac ex-
amination. As the surgeon before the anesthetic, so
must the physician know the heart before administering
this drug, especially to children, and seniles—and to
young seniles. He who observes this rule will have
fewer clinical reproaches on his conscience. When
Tuberculinum is contraindicated, recourse must be had
to the nearest antipsoric.
758 =TURER. — TURNERA — TUS, PET. — UPAS TIENTE

The above caution applies also to asthma, pleuritis,
peritonitis in scrofulous (tuberculous) subjects. [Dr.
Nebel Montreux.) Verner (Paris) never gives Tuber-

TURNERA
(Damiana)

Said to be of use in sexual neurasthenia; impotency.
Sexual debility from nervous prostration. Incontinence
of old people. Chronic prostatic discharge. Aids the
establishment of normal menstrual flow in young girls.

Dose. — Tincture and fluid extract —ten- to forty-
drop doses.

TUSSILAGO PETASITES
(Butter-burr)

Has some action on the urinary organs, and found
useful in gonorrheea. Affections of pylorus,

Urinary. Crawling in urethra.

Male. — Gonorrhea; yellowish, thick discharge.
Erections, with urethral crawling. Pain in spermatic
cord.

Relationship.— Compare: Tussilago fragrans (py-
lorus pain, plethora and corpulency) ; Tussilago farfara
(coughs) ; as an intercurrent medicine in phthisis pul-
monalis. (See Tuberculinum.)

Dose. — Tincture.

UPAS TIENTE
(Upas-tree — Strychnos Tiente)

Produces ‘tonic spasms, tetanus, and asphyxia.

Head. — Disinclined for mental work. Irritable.
Dull headache deep in brain

Eyes. — Pain in eyes and orbits, with conjunctivitis.
Dull, sunken eyes. Styes.
UPUS TIENTE— URANIUM NITRICUM 759

Mouth. — Herpes on lips. Burning on the tongue.
Pain in mouth, as from a splinter. [Nit. ac.}

Male. — Desire increased, with loss of power.
Dull backache, as after excessive coitus.

Chest. — Lancinating pain throughout right lung
toward the liver, stopping breathing. Violent palpitation ;
sensation of heavinegs in stomach.

Skin. — Numb hands and feet. Hangnails inflamed;
itching and redness of roots of nails.

Relationship. — Compare: Upas anttaris (differs in
producing clonic spasms, violent vomiting, diarrhcea,
great prostration). Oval. ac. Upas when Brvonia fails
(typhoid.)

Antidote: Curarc.

Dose. — Third to sixth potency.

URANIUM NITRICUM
(Nitrate of Uranium)

Is known to produce nephritis, diabetes, degeneration
of the liver, high blood pressure and dropsy. Its thera-
peutic keynote is great emaciation, debility and ten-
dency to ascites and general dropsy.

Head. — Ill-tempered; dull, heavy pain. Nostrils
sore, with: purulent, acrid discharge.

Eyes. — Lids inflamed and agglutinated; styes.

Stomach. — Excessive thirst; nausea; vomiting. Rav-
enous appetite; eating followed by flatulence. Boring
pain in pyloric region. Gastric and duodenal ulcers.
Burning pain. Abdomen bloatcd.

Urinary. — Copious urination. Disuresis. Inconti-
nence of urine. Diabetes. Emaciation and tympanites.
Burning in urethra, with very acid urine. Unable to
retain urine without pain. Enuresis. [Mullein oil.]
760 URANIUM NITRICUM — UREA — URTICA URENS

Male. — Complete impotency, with nocturnal emis-
sions. Organs cold, relaxed, sweaty.

Relationship. — Compare: Phos. ac.; Lact. ac.; Arg.
nit.; Kali bich.; Ars.; Phloridzin (a glucosidal principle
obtained from the bark of the apple and other fruit
trees. Produces diabetes and fatty degeneration of the
liver; intermittent fever. Daily doses, 15 grains).

Dose. — Second trituration.

UREA
(Carbamide)

Tuberculosis. Lumps. Enlarged glands. Renal
dropsy, with symptoms of general intoxication. Gouty
eczema. Albuminuria, diabetes; uremia. Urine thin
and of low specific gravity.

Relationship — Compare: Uric acid (gout, gouty
eczema. rheumatism, lipoma); Urinum (acne, boils,
scurvy, dropsy); Urtica, Tubercul.; Thyroid,

URTICA URENS
(Stinging-nettle)

A remedy for agalactia and lithiasis. Profuse dis-
charge from mucous surfaces. Enuresis and urticaria.
Spleen affections. Antidotes ill-effects of eating shell-
fish. Symptoms return at the same time every year,’
Gout and uric acid diathesis. Favors elimination.

Rheumatism associated with urticaria-like eruptions.
Neuritis.

Abdomen. —Diarrheea chronic disease of large in-
testine characterized by large secretion of mucus.

Male.—Itching of scrotum, keeps him awake;
scrotum swollen.
URTICA URENS — USNEA BARBATA 761

Female. — Diminished secretion of milk. Uterine
hemorrhage. Acid and excoriating leucorrhwa. Pru-
ritus vulow, wilh stinging, utching, and cedema. Arrests
flow of milk after weaning. Excessive swelling of
breasts.

Extremities. — Pain in deltoid: pain in ankles,
wrists.

Skin. —Jiching blotches. Usticaria, burning heat,
with fermication; violent itching. Consequences of sup-
pressed nettle-rash. Rheumatism alternates with nettles
rash, Burn confined to skin. Urticarsa nodosa. [Bov.]
Erythema, with burning and stinging. Burns and scalds.
Chicken-pox., [Dule.] Angio-neurotic adema, Herpes
labialis with sensation of heat and itching. Itching and
stinging of scrotum.

Fever.— General heat in bed with soreness over
abdomen. Fever of gout. Tropical fever.

Modalities. — I}’orse, from snow-air; water, cool
moist air, touch.

Relationship. -— Compare: Medusa; Nat. mur.; Lae.
cen.; Ricin (diminished mammary secretion) ; Bombyx ;
Rhus; Apis; Chloral ; -Astac.; Puls, (urticaria) ; Beletus
luridus and Anacard. (urticaria tuberosa): Lycop, and
Hedeoma (uric acid conditions) ; Formica.

Dose. — Tincture and Jower potencies.

USNEA BARBATA
(Tree-moss)

Is a remedy in some forms of congestive headache;
sunstroke.

Head. — Bursting fecling, as if temples would burst,
or the eyes burst out of the sockets. Throbbing carotids.
[Bell.]

Relationship. — Compare: Glonoine; Bellad.

Dose. — Tincture, drop doses.
762 USTILAGO — USTILAGO MAYDIS

USTILAGO
(Zea Italica)

Possesses curative properties in skin diseases, par-
ticularly in psoriasis and eczema rubrum.

Mental, — Mania for bathing. Impulse to suicide,
particularly by drowning. Easily angered.

Stomach. — Appetite increased, voracious, alternat-
ing with disgust for food. Pyrosis, nausea, vomiting,
better drinking wine.

USTILAGO MAYDIS
(Corn-smut)

Flabby condition of uterus. Hamorrhage. Conges-
tion to various parts, especially at climacteric, Crusta
lactea. [Viola tric.]

‘Head.—Very depressed. Full feeling. Nervous
headache from menstrual irregularities. Aching in eye-
balls, with much lJachrymation.

Male. — Uncontrollable masturbation. Spermator-
rhaa, with erotic fancies and amorous dreams. Emis-
sions, with irresistible tendency to masturbation, Dull
pain in lumbar region, with great despondency and
mental irritability,

Female. — Vicarious menstruation. [Bry.;  Phos.]
Ovaries burn, pain, swell, Profuse menses after mis-
carriage; discharge of blood from slightest provocation
[/pec., Sabina]; bright red; partly clotted. Menor-
rhagia at climaxis. [Calr. ..; Lach.] Oozing of dark
blood, clutted, forming long black strings. [Argm. n.;
Croc.; Lac. c.) Uterus hypertrophied. Cervix bleed
easily. |Sulph. ac.] Postpartum hemorrhage. [/pec.;
Sab,; Sec.] Profuse lochia.
USTILAGO MAYDIS — UVA URSI 763

Fever. — Abundant sweat. Pulse at first accelerated
then enfeebled. Palpitations.

Extremities. — Muscular debility, sensation of boiling
water along the back. Clonic and tetanic movements.
Muscular contractions, especially of lower limbs.

Skin. — Alopecia. Tendency to small boils. Skin
dry; eczema; copper-colored spots. Pruritus; sunburn.
Psoriasis. (internally and externally.)

Relationship, — Compare: Secale; Sabin.
Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

UVA URSI
(Bearberry)

Urinary symptoms most important. Cystitis, with
bloody urme. Uterine hemorrhage. Chronic vesival
irritation, with pain, tenesmus, and catarrhal discharges.
Burning after the discharge of slimy urine. Pyelitis.
Calculous inflammation.

Urinary. — Frequent urging, with severe spasms of
bladder; burning and tearing pain. Urine contains
blood, pus, and much tenacious mucus, with clots in
large masses. Involuntary; green urine. Painful
dysuria,

Relationship. — Compare: Arbutin (a crystallized
glucoside of Uva; found also in Kalmia, Gaultheria;
given in doses of 15 grains with sugar). Arctosphylos
manzanita (acts on renal and reproductive organs.
Gonorrhoea, vesical catarrh, diabetes, menorrhagia.
Tincture of leaves).

Dose. — Tincture, five to thirty drops. In pyelitis a
trituration of the leaves.
764 VACCININUM — VALERIANA

VACCININUM
(Nosode -- From vaccine matter)

Vaccine poison is capable of setting up a morbid state
of extreme chronicity, named by Burnett Vaccinosis,
symptoms like those of Hahnemann's Sycosis. Neural-
gias, inveterate skin eruptions, chilliness, indigestion with
great flatulent distension (Clark). Whooping-cough.

Head. — Frontal headache. Forehead and eves
feel as if split. Inflamed and red lids.

Skin. — Hot and dry. Pimples and blotches. Ernp-
tion like variola.

Relationship.— Compare: Variolin; Malandrium;
Thuja,

Dose. — Sixth to 200th potency.

VALERIANA
(Valerian)

Hystetia, over-sensitiveness, nervous affections, when
apparently well-chosen remedies fail. Hysterical spasms
and affections generally. Hysterical flatulency,

Mind. — Changeable disposition. Feels light, as if
floating in air. Over-sensitiveness. [Staph] Halluci-
nations at night. Irritable. Tremulous.

Head. —- Sensation of great coldness. Pressure in
forehead. Feeling of intoxication.

Ears. — Earache from exposure to draughts and cold.
Nervous noises, Hyperzsthesia.

Throat. — Sensation as tf a thread were hanging down
throat. Nausea felt in throat. Pharynx feels con-
stricted.

Stomach. — Hunger, with nausea. Eructations foul.
Heartburn with guipmg of rancid fluid. Nausea, with
faintness. Child vomits curdled milk in large lumps
after nursing.
VALERIAN A — VANADIUM 765

Abdomen. — Bloated. Hysterical cramps. Thin,
watery diarrhoea, with lumps of coagulated milk, with
violent screaming in children. Greenish, papescent,
bloody stool. Spasms in bowels after food and at night
in hed.

Respiratory. — Choking on falling asleep. Spas-
modic asthina; convulsive movements of the diaphragm.

Female. — Menses late and scanty. [Puls.]

Extremities. — Rheumatic pains in limbs. Constant
jerking, Heaviness. Sciatica; pain worse standing and
resting on floor [Bell.]; better walking. Pain in heels
when sitting.

Sleep. — Sleepless, with nightly itching and muscu-
lar spasms. Worse on waking

Fever.— Long lasting heat, often with sweat on
face. Heat predominates. Sensation of icy coldness.
[Helodcerma; Camp.; Aties c.]

Relationship. — Compare: Asaf.; Ign.; Croc;
Castor.; Amm.valer. (in neuralgia, gastric disturbance,
and great nervous agitation),

Dose, — Tincture.

VANADIUM
(The Metal)

Its action is that of an oxygen carrier and a cata-
lyzer, hence its use in wasting diseases. Increases
amount of haemoglobin, also combines its oxygen with
toxines and destroys their virulence. Also increases and
stimulates phagocytes.

A remedy in degenerative conditions of the liver and
arteries. Anorexia and symptoms of gastro intestinal
irritation, albumen, casts and blood in urine. Tremors;
vertigo; hysteria and melancholia; neuro-retinitis and
blindness. Anemia, emaciation. Cough dry, irritating
and paroxysmal, sometimes with hemorrhages. Irrita-
766 VANADIUM — VANILLA — VARIOLINUM

tion of nose, eyes and throat. Tuberculosis, chronic
rheumatism, diabetes. Acts as a tonic to digestive func-
tion and in early tuberculosis. Arterio-sclerosis, sensa-
tion as if heart was compressed, as if blood had no
room in the aorta. Anxious pressure on whole chest.
Fatty heart. Denegerative states, has brain softening.
Atheroma of arteries of brain and liver. Compare:
Ars.; Phos. Dose, 6-12 potency. Ammon, vanad.
(fatty degeneration of liver.)

Dose. — The best form is Vanadiate of Soda, 2 mg.
daily, by mouth.

VANILLA — PLANIFOLIA
(Vanilla)

Marked skin, irritation resembling mild Poison-cak ;
is sometimes produced by handling the beans, also
by local use of vanilla essence in a hair wash. Vanilla,
6th to 30th, has been found effective in curing the
skin affection. Vanilla is supposed to stimulate the
brain and sexual propensities. Do not use the syn-
thetic Vanilla extract.

VARIOLINUM

\ (Lymph from Small-pox Pustule)

Used for “internal vaccination.” Seems to be effica-
cious in protecting against, modifying and aiding in
the cure of small-pox.

Head. — Morbid fear of small-pox. Deafness. Pain
in occiput. Inflamed eyelids.

t Respiratory. —- Oppressed breathing. Throat fecls
closed. Cough with thick viscid, bloody mucus. Feel-
ing of a lump in right side of throat,

Relationship. — Excruciating backache. Aching in
legs. Tired ali over with restlessness. Wrists pain.
Pains shift from back to abdomen.
766 VANADIUM — VANILLA — VARIOLINUM

tion of nose, eyes and throat. Tuberculosis, chronic
rheumatism, diabetes. Acts as a tonic to digestive func-
tion and in early tuberculosis. Arterio-sclerosis, sensa-
tion as if heart was compressed, as if blood had no
room in the aorta. Anxious pressure on whole chest.
Fatty heart. Denegerative states, has brain softening.
Atheroma of arteries of brain and liver. Compare:
Ars.; Phos. Dose, 6-12 potency. Ammon, vanad.
(fatty degeneration of liver.)

Dose. — The best form is Vanadiate of Soda, 2 mg.
daily, by mouth.

VANILLA — PLANIFOLIA
(Vanilla)

Marked skin, irritation resembling mild Poison-cak ;
is sometimes produced by handling the beans, also
by local use of vanilla essence in a hair wash. Vanilla,
6th to 30th, has been found effective in curing the
skin affection. Vanilla is supposed to stimulate the
brain and sexual propensities. Do not use the syn-
thetic Vanilla extract.

VARIOLINUM

\ (Lymph from Small-pox Pustule)

Used for “internal vaccination.” Seems to be effica-
cious in protecting against, modifying and aiding in
the cure of small-pox.

Head. — Morbid fear of small-pox. Deafness. Pain
in occiput. Inflamed eyelids.

t Respiratory. —- Oppressed breathing. Throat fecls
closed. Cough with thick viscid, bloody mucus. Feel-
ing of a lump in right side of throat,

Relationship. — Excruciating backache. Aching in
legs. Tired ali over with restlessness. Wrists pain.
Pains shift from back to abdomen.
VARIOLINUM — VERATRUM ALBUM 767

Fever.— Hot fever, with intense radiating heat.
Profuse bad-smelling sweat.

Skin. — Hot, dry. Eruption of pustules. Shingles.

Relationship. — Compare: Vaccin. (same action);
Malandrium — the morbid product of the grease of the
horse (a prophylactic of small-pox and a remedy for
the ill-effects of vaccination; chronic eczema following
vaccination ).

Dose. — Sixth to thirtieth potency.

VERATRUM ALBUM
(White Hellebore)

A perfect picture of collapse, with extreme coldness,
blueness, and weakness, is offered by this drug. Post-
operative shock with cold sweat on forehead, pale face,
rapid, feeble pulse. Cold perspiration on the forehead,
with nearly all complaints. V’omiting, purging, and
cramps in calremitics. The profuse, violent retching
and vomiting is most characteristic. Surgical shock.

Mind. —- Melancholy, with stupor and mania. Sits
in a stupid manner; notices nothing. Sullen indifference.
Frenzy of excitement; shrieks, curses. Puerperal mania.
Aimless wandering from home. Delusions of impending
misfortuncs. Mania, with desire to cut and tear things.
[Tarant.] Attacks of pain, with delirium driving to
madness. Cursing and howling all night.

Head. — Contracted features. Cold sweat on fore-
head. Sensation of a lump of ice on vertex. Head-
ache, with nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, pale face. Neck
too weak to hold head up,

Eyes, — Surrounded by dark rings. Staring; turned
upwards, without lustre. Lachrymation with redness.
Lids dry, heavy.

Face. — Features sunken. Icy coldness of tip of
nose and face. Nose grows more pointed. Tearing in
768 VERATRUM ALBUM

cheeks, teinples, and eyes, Face very pale, blue, col-
lapsed, cold.

Mouth. — Tongue pale, cold; cool sensation, as
from peppermint. Toothache, teeth feel heavy as if
filled with lead.

Stomach. — Voracious appetite. Thirst for cold water,
but ts vomited as soon as swallowed. Averse to warm
food. Hiccough. Copious vomiting and nausea; ag-
gravated by drinking and least motion. Craves fruit,
juicy and cold things, ice. Anguish in pit of stomach.
Great weakness after vomiting.

Abdomen. — Sinking and empty feeling. Cold feeling
in stomach and abdomen. Pain in abdomen preceding
stool. Cramps, knotting abdomen and legs. Sensation
as if hernia would protrude. [Nux.] Abdomen sensi-
tive to pressure, swollen with terrible colic.

Rectum, — Constipation from inactivity of rectum,
with heat and headache. Constipation of babies, and
when produced by very cold weather. Slools large.
with much straining until exhausted, with cold sweat.
Diarrhoea, very painful, watery, copious, and forcibly
evacuated, followed by great prostration. Evacuations
of cholera morbus and true cholera.

Respiratory. — Hoarse, weak voice. Rattling in
chest. Much mucus in bronchial tubes, that cannot be
coughed up. Coarse rales. Loud, barking, stomach
cough, followed by eructation of gas; worse. warm room.
Hollow cough, tickling low down, with blue face. :
Cough comes on from drinking, especially cold water ;
urine escapes when coughing. Cough on entering warm
room from cold air. [Bryonta.]

Heart. — Palpitation with anxiety and rapid audible
respiration. Pulse irregular, intermittent, feeble. To-
bacco heart from chewing.

Female. — Menses too early; profuse and exhaust-
VERATRUM ALRUM— VERATRUM VIRIDE 769

ing. Dysmenorrhaa, with coldness, purging, cold sweat,»
Faints from least exertion. Sexual mania precedes
menses.

Extremities.—Soreness and tenderness of joints.
Sciatica; pains like electric flashes. Cramps in calves.
Neuralgia in brachiai plexus; arms feel swollen, cold,
paralytic, ”

Skin. — Blue, cold, clammy, inelastic; cold as death,
Cold sweat. Wrinkling of skin of hands and feet.

Fever. -— Chill, with extreme coldness and thirst.

Modalities. — Il orse, at mght; wet, cold weather.
Better, walking and warmth.

Relationship. — Compare: J’eratrinum — alkaloid
from seeds of Sahbadilla.— (electric pains, electric
shochs in muscles, fibrillary twitchings): Cholos terre-
pina (cramps in calves); Comp.; Cupr.; drs.; Cup-
rum ars, (intermittent, cold, clammy sweat); Narcissus
poctiius (gastro-enteritis with much griping and cut-
ting pain in bowels. Fainting, trembling, cold limbs,
small and irregular pulse); Trychosanthes; Trycho-
santhes — Fatal — (diarrbora, dizziness after every
stool); Agaric. emetic. (vertigo; longing for ice-cold
water; burning pains in stomach); lyaric. phalloides
(cholera, cramps in stomach, cold extremities, urine
suppressed). Veratrine (lnereased vascular tension. It
relaxes it and stimulates the elimination of toxins by
skin, kidneys, and liver).

Dose. — First to thirticth potency. In diarrhoea,
not below the sixth,

VERATRUM VIRIDE
(White American Hellebore)

Congestions, especially to lungs, base of brain. Twitch-
ings and convulsions. Especially adaoted to full-blooded,
plethoric persons. Rheumatism of heart. Bloated, livid
770 VERATRUM VIRIDE

face. Furious delirium. Effects of sunstroke. Verat.
vir, will raise the opsonic index against the diplococcus
pneumonia, 70 to 109 per cent. Congestive stage and
early manifestations of hepatization in pneumonia.
Clinically, it is known that such diseases as Tiegel’s
contracture, Thompson’s Disease, athetosis and pseudo-
hypertrophic muscular paralysis present a symptomatol-
ogy quite like that produced by Veratrum vir. upon
mucular tissue. (A. E. Hinsdale, M.D.)

Mind. — Quarrelsome and delirious.

Head.—Congestion intense, almost apoplectic. Hot
head, bloodshot eyes. Head retracted, pupils dilatcd,
double vision. Meningitis. Pain from nape of neck;
cannot hold head up. Sunstroke; head full, throbbing
arteries. [Bcll.; Glon.; Usnea.] Face flushed. Con-
vulsive twitching of facial muscles. [Agaricus.]

Tongue. — White or yellow, with red streak down the
middle, Feels scalded. [Sang.]

Stomach, — Thirsty. Nausea and vuiniting. Small-
est quantity of food or drink immediately rejected. Con-
strictive pain; increased by warm drinks. Hicough;
excessive and painful, with spasms of cesophagus.

Abdomen. — Pain above pelvis, with soreness.

Respiratory. — Congestion of lungs. Difficult
breathing. Sensation of a heavy load on chest. Pneu-
monia, with faint feeling in stomach and Violent con-
gestion Croup. Menstrual culic before the appearance
of the discharge with strangury.

Urine. — Scanty with cloudy sediment.

Female. — Rigid os. [Bell.; Gels.] Puerperal fever.
Suppressed menstruation, with congestion to head.
[Bell.} Menstrual colic before the appearance of the
discharge with strangury.

Heart.— Pulse siow, soft, weak, irregular, intermit-
tent, [Tebac.; Dig.) Constant, dull, burning pain in
VERATRUM VIRIDE — VERBASCUM 771

region of heart. Valvular diseases. Beating of pulses
throughout body, especially in right thigh.

Extremities. — Aching pain in back of neck and
shoulders. Severe pain in jomts and muscles. Violent
electric-like shocks in limbs. Convulsive twitchings.
Acute rheumatism. Fever.

Skin. -- Erysipelas, with cerebral symptoms. Ery-
thema. Itching in various parts. Hot sweating.

Fever. — Hyperthermy in the evening and hypo-
thermy in the morning. Suppurative fevers with great
variation of temperature,

Relationship. — Compare: (rels.; Bapt.; Bell.; .tcoon.;
Ferr. phos. Antidotes Strychnin— fluid extract, 20-
40 drops.

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

VERBASCUM
(Mullein)

Has a pronounced action on the inferior maxillary
branch of the fifth pair of the cranial nerves; on the
ear: and respiratory tract and bladder. Cutarrhs, and
colds, with periodical prosopalgia. Quicts nervous, and
bronchial, and urinary irritation, and cough,

Face. — Neuralgia affecting zygoma, temporo maxil-
lary joint, and ear [Menyanth.], particularly of left
side, with lachrymation, coryza, and sensation as if
parts were crushed with tongs. Talking, sneezing, and
change of temperature aggravate the pains; also, press-
ing teeth together.

Ears. — Otalgia, with a sense of obstruction. Deaf-
ness. Dry, scaly condition of meatus (use locally).

Abdomen. — Pain extends decp down, causing con-
traction of sphincter ani.

Rectum. — Many movements a day, with twisting
772 VERBASCUM — VERBENA

about navel. Hemorrhoids, with obstructed, hardened
stool. Inflamed and painful piles,

Respiratory. — [/oarse ; voice deep, harsh; sounds like
a trumpet; “basso profundo.” Cough; worse at night.
Asthma. Soreness in pharynx, cough during sleep.

Urinary. — Constant dribbling. Enuresis. Burning
urination. Increase with pressure in bladder.

Extremities. — Cramp-like pain in solvs, right foot,
and knee. Lower extremities feel heavy. Thumb feels
numb, Neuralgic pain in left ankle. Stiffness and
soreness of joints of lower extremities.

Modalities. — I]’orse, change of temperature, talking,
sneezing, biting hard; from 9 a.m, to 4 pM,

Relationship. — Compare: Rhus arom.; Caust.;
Platin.; Sphingurus (pain in zygoma).

Dose. — Mullein oil, locally, for earache and dry, scaly
condition of meatus, Also for teasing cough at night
or lying down. Enuresis, five-droap doses night and
morning. Internally, tincture and lower potencies,

VERBENA
(Blue Vervain)

Affects the skin and #erzous system. Nervous de-
pression, weakness and irritation and spasms. Pro-
motes the absorption of blood and allays pain in bruises.
Vesicular erysipelas. Passive congestion and intermit-
tent fever. One of the remedies for Poison-oak. Epi-'
lepsy, insomnia, mental exhaustion. In epilepsy, it
brightens up the patient’s mental powers and helps the
constipation.

Dose. — Single dose of the tincture. In epilepsy
must be continued fur a long time. Verbena in thc
form of a tea as a diuretic drink is used by Vannier

‘(Paris) to aid elimination in tubercular therapy.
VESPA CRABRO — VIRBURNUM OPULUS 773

VESPA CRABRO
(Live Wasp)

Skin and female symptoms marked. Indurated feel-
ing. Vasomotor symptoms of skin and mucous mem-
branes.

Dizzy, better lying on back. Nausea and vomiting,
followed by creeping chills from feet upward. Cramp-
ing pain in bowels, Axillary glands swollen with sore-
ness of upper arms. Perspiration on parts laid on
with itching.

Face.— Painful and swollen. Erysipcelatous in-
flammation of lids. Chemosis of conjunctiva. Swelling
of mouth and throat, with violent burning pains.

Female. — Menstruation, preceded by depression,
pain, pressure. and constipation. Left ovary markedly
affected, with frequent burning, micturition ; sacral pains
extending up back. Erosion around external os.

Skin. — Erythema; intense itching; burning. Bozls;
stinging and soreness, relieved by bathing with vine-
gar. Wheals, macules and swellings with burning,
stinging and soreness. Erythema multiforme, relizved
by bathing with vinegar.

Relationship. — Compare: Scorpo (salivation; stra-
bismus; tetanus); Apis.

Antidote: Sempervivum tector., locally.

Dose. — Third to thirtieth potency.

VIBURNUM OPULUS
(High Cranberry)

A general remedy for cramps. Female symptoms
most important. Often prevents miscarriage. False
labor-pains. Spasmodic and congestive affections, de-
pendent upon ovarian or uterine origin.
774 VIBURNUM OPULUS

Head. — Irritable. Vertigo; feels as if falling for-
ward. Severe pain in temporal region. Sore feeling
in eyeballs. [Cimicif.]

Stomach. — Constant nausea; relieved by eating.

Abdomen. — Sudden cramps and colic pains. Tender
to pressure about umbilicus.

Female.— Menses too late, scanty, lasting a few
hours, offensive in odor, with crampy pains, cramps ex-
tend down thighs. [Beil.] Bearing-down pains before.
Ovarian region feels heavy and congested. Aching in
sacrum and pubes, with pain in anterior muscles of
thighs [Xanthox.]; spasmodic and membranous dys-
menorrhaa. [Borax.] Leucorrhoea, excoriating. Smart-
ing and itching of genitals. Faint on attempting to sit
up. Frequent and very carly miscarriuge, causing
seeming sterility.

Urinary. — frequent urging. Cupious, pate, light-
colored urine. Cannot hold water on coughing or
walking.

Rectum. —- Stools large and hard, with cutting in
rectum and soreness of anus.

Extremities. —Stiff, sore feeling in nape of neck.
Sacral backache. Lower extremities weak and heavy.

Modalities. — Worse, lying on affected side, in warm
room, evening and night. Better, in open air and
resting.

Relationship. — Compare Virburnum  prunifolium
(habitual miscarriage; oficr-pains; cancer of the
tonguc; obstinate hiccough; supposed to be a uterine
tonic). Cimicif.; Cauloph.; Sep.; Xanthox.

Dose.—Tincture, and lower potencies.
VINCA MINOR — VIOLA ODORATA 775

VINCA MINOR
(Lesser Periwinkle)

A remedy for skin affections, eczema, and especially
plica polonica; also for hemorrhages and diphtheria.

Head. — Tcaring pain in vertex, ringing and whist-
ling in ears. Whirling vertigo, with flickering before
eyes. Spots on scalp, oosiny moisture, matting hair to-
gether. Corrosive itching of scalp. Bald spots. Plica
polonica. Irresistible desire to scratch.

Nose.-— Tip gets red easily. Moist eruption on
septum. Stoppage of one nostril. Sorzs in nose. Sebor-
rhoea upper lip and base of nose.

Throat. — Difficult swaliowing. Ulcers. Frequent
hawking. Diphtheria.

Female. — Excessive menstruation with great weak-
ness. Passive uterine haemorrhages. [Ust.; Trill.;
Secale.) Menorrhagia; continuous flow, particularly at
climacteric. [Lach.] Hemorrhages from fibroids.

Skin. -—- Corrosive itching. Great sensitiveness of
skin, with redness and soreness from slight rubbing.
Eczema of head and face; pustules, itching, burning,
and offensive odor. Hair matted together.

Relationship, — Compare: Olcand.; Staph,

Dose. — First to third potency.

VIOLA ODORATA
(Violet)

Has a specific action on the ear. Affects especially
dark-haired patients; supra-orhital and orbital regions;
rheumatism in upper parts of the body when on the
right side. Worm affections in children. [Tewc.]
Locally, for pain due to uterine fibroids. Also against
snake-bites, bee-stings.

Head. — Burning of the forehead. Vertigo; every-
thing in head seems to whirl around. Heaviness of
776 VIOLA ODORATA

head, with sensation of weakness in muscles of nape
of neck. Scalp tense; must knit the brows, Ten-
dency to pain immediately above cyebrows. Throbbing
under eye and temple. Headache across the forehead.
Acts upon frontal sinuses.

Eyes.—IHleaviness of lids. Eyeball feels com-
pressed. I‘lames before eyes. Myopia. Choroiditis.
Illusions of vision; fiery, serpentine circles.

Ears. — Shooting in ears. Aversion to music.
Roaring and tickling. Deep stitches beneath ears. Deaf-
ness; otorrhea, .

” Respiratory. — Torpor in the end of nose, as from
a blow. Dry, short, spasmodic cough and dyspnoea;
worse in daytime. Oppression of chest. Pertussis, with
hoarsenes. Dyspnava during pregnancy. Difficult breath-
ing, anxiety and palpitation, with hysteria,

Extremities. — Rheumatism: of the deltoid muscle.
Trembling of limbs. Dressing pain in right carpal and
metacarfal joints. [Ulmus.]

Urinary. — Milky urine; smells strong.
Modalities. — I¥’orse, cool air.

Relationship. — Compare: Ulmus (formication in
fect, numb, creeping pain in legs and fect; rheumatic
pains above wrists; numbness, tingling, and full sore-
ness where gastrocnemius gives off its tendon) ; Chepopo-
dium (cars; serous or bloody effusion in the labyrinth;
chronic otitis media; Progressive “deafness to the voice,
but sensitive to sounds of passing vehicles and other
sounds; buzzing; a absent or deficient bone_conduction; a
consciousness of the ear; hearing better for shrill, high-
pitched sounds than for low ones); Aur.; Puls.; Sep.;
Cina; Cauloph. (in rheumatism of small joints.)

‘Dose. — Tincture, to sixth potency.
776 VIOLA ODORATA

head, with sensation of weakness in muscles of nape
of neck. Scalp tense; must knit the brows, Ten-
dency to pain immediately above cyebrows. Throbbing
under eye and temple. Headache across the forehead.
Acts upon frontal sinuses.

Eyes.—IHleaviness of lids. Eyeball feels com-
pressed. I‘lames before eyes. Myopia. Choroiditis.
Illusions of vision; fiery, serpentine circles.

Ears. — Shooting in ears. Aversion to music.
Roaring and tickling. Deep stitches beneath ears. Deaf-
ness; otorrhea, .

” Respiratory. — Torpor in the end of nose, as from
a blow. Dry, short, spasmodic cough and dyspnoea;
worse in daytime. Oppression of chest. Pertussis, with
hoarsenes. Dyspnava during pregnancy. Difficult breath-
ing, anxiety and palpitation, with hysteria,

Extremities. — Rheumatism: of the deltoid muscle.
Trembling of limbs. Dressing pain in right carpal and
metacarfal joints. [Ulmus.]

Urinary. — Milky urine; smells strong.
Modalities. — I¥’orse, cool air.

Relationship. — Compare: Ulmus (formication in
fect, numb, creeping pain in legs and fect; rheumatic
pains above wrists; numbness, tingling, and full sore-
ness where gastrocnemius gives off its tendon) ; Chepopo-
dium (cars; serous or bloody effusion in the labyrinth;
chronic otitis media; Progressive “deafness to the voice,
but sensitive to sounds of passing vehicles and other
sounds; buzzing; a absent or deficient bone_conduction; a
consciousness of the ear; hearing better for shrill, high-
pitched sounds than for low ones); Aur.; Puls.; Sep.;
Cina; Cauloph. (in rheumatism of small joints.)

‘Dose. — Tincture, to sixth potency.
VIOLA TRICOLOR —— VIPERA 777

VIOLA TRICOLOR
(Pansy)

The principal uses of this remedy are for eczema in
childhood and nocturnal emission accompanied by very
vivid dreams,

Head. — Heavy, pressing-outward pain. Eczema of
scalp, with swollen glands. Face hot and sweating after
eating,

Throat. — Much phlegm, causing hawking; worse
in the air. Swallowing difficult.

Urinary. — Copious; disagreeable, cat-like odor.

Male. — Swelling of prepuce, burning in glans.
Itching. Involuntary, seminal emissions at stool.

Skin. —J/impctigo. Intolerabie itching. Eruptions,
particularly over face and head, with burning, itching;
worse at night. Thick scabs, which crack and exude
a tenacious yellow pus. Eczema impetigonoides of the
face. Sycosis.

Modalities. — Worse, winter; 11 a.m. Compare:
Lycop.

Relationship. — Compare: Rhus; Calc.; Sepia.

Dose. —.Lower potencies.

VIPERA
-: (Phe German Viper)

Indicated in inflammation of veins with great swell-
ing: bursting sensation. Enlargement of liver. Ail-
ments of menopause. Cédema of glottis.

Face. — Excessively swollen. Lips and tongue
swollen, livid, protruding. Tongue dry, brown, black.
Speech difficult,

Liver. — Violent pain in enlarged liver, with jaun-
dice and fever; extends to shoulder and hip.

Extremities. — Patient is obliged to keep the ex-
778 VIPERA — VISCUM ALBUM

tremities elevated. When they are allowed to hang
down, it seems as if they would burst, and the pain is
unbearable. [Diad.] Varicose veins and acute phlebitis.
Veins swollen, sensitive; bursting pain. Severe cramps
in lower extremities.

Skin. — Livid. Skin peels in large plates. Lymph-
angioma, boils, carbuncles, with bursting sensation, re-
lieved by elevating parts.

Relationship.—Pelias berus—Adder. —_(Prostration
and fainting, faltering pulse, skin yellow, pain about
navel. Swelling of arm, tongue, right eye; giddiness,
nervousness, faintness, sickness, compression of chest,
could not breathe properly or take a deep breath; ach-
ing and stiffness of limbs, joints stiff, collapsed feeling,
great thirst.) Eel serum (heart and kidney diseases.
Failure of compensation and impending asystole),

Dose. — Twelfth potency.

VISCUM ALBUM
(Mistletoe)

The symptoms point especially to rheumatic and
gouty complaints; neuralgia, especially sciatica. Epi-
lepsy, chorea, and metrorrhagia. Rheumatic deafness.
Asthma. Spinal pains, due to uterine causes. Rheuma-
tism with tearing pains. Arterial hypertension. Hyper-
tensive albuminuria. Valvular disease, with disturbances
in sexual sphere.

Head. — Feeling as if whole vault of skull were
lifted up. Blue rings around eyes. Double vision. Buz-
zing and stopped-up feeling in ear. Deafness frum cold.
Facial muscles in constant agitation. 7"

Respiratory. — Dyspnoea; feeling of suffocation when
lying on lcft side. Spasmodic cough Asthma, if con-
nected with gout or rheumatism. Stertorous breathing.

Female. — Hemorrhage, with pain; blood partly
VISCUM ALBUM — WYETHIA 779

clots and bright red. Climacteric complaints. [Lach.;
Sulph.] Pain from sacrum into pelvis, with tearing,
shooting pains from above downwards. Retained pla-
centa. [Secale.] Chronic endometritis,

Heart. — Hypertrophy with valvular insufficiency;
pulse small and weak; unable to rest in a reclining
position. Palpitation during coitus. Failing compensa-
tion, dyspnoea worse lying on left side. Weight and
oppression of heart; as if a hand were squeezing it;
tickling sensation about heart.

Extremities.— Pains alternate in the knee and
ankle with shoulder and elbow. Sciatica. Tearing,
shooting pains in both thighs and upper extreinities. A
glow rises from the feet to the head; seems to be on
fire. Periodic pains from sacrum into pelvis, worse
i bed, with pains into thighs and upper extremities.
General tremor, as if all niuscles were in state of fibril-
lary contraction. Dropsy of extremities.

Modalities. — }’orse, winter, cold, stormy weather;
in bed. Movement; lying on left side.

Relationship. — Compare: Secale; Convallar.; Bry.;
Puls.; Rhodod.  Guipsine —active principle — (exalts
the hypotensive properties of Viscum).

Dose. — Tincture and lower potencies.

WYETHIA
(Poison-weed)

Has marked effects on the throat, and has proven an
excellent remedy in pharyngitis, especially the follicular
form. Useful also in hemorrhoids, Irritable throats
of singers and public speakers.

Head. — Nervous, uneasy, depressed. Dizzy. Rush
cf blood to head. Sharp pain in forehead.
780 WYETHLA — XANTIOXYLUM

Mouth. — Feels as if scalded; sensation of heat down
cesophagus. ,

Throat. — Constant clearing and hemming. Dry, pos-
terior nares; no relief from clearing. Throat feels
swollen; epiglottis dry and burning. Difficult swallow-
ing. Constant desire to swallow saliva. Uvula feels
elongated.

Stomach. — Sense of weight. Belching of wind al-
ternating with hiccough. Nausea and vomiting.

Abdomen. — Pain below ribs of right side.

Stool. — Loose, dark, at night. Itching of anus.
Constipation, with hemorrhoids; not bleeding.

Respiratory. — Dry, hacking cough, caused by ticl:-
ling of the epiglottis. Burning sensation in the bron-
chial tubes. Tendency to get hoarse from talking or
singing ; throat is hot and dry. [Bell.] Dry asthma.

Female. — Pain in left ovary, shooting down to knee.
Pain in uterus, could outline its contour.

Extremities. — Pain in back; extends to end of spine.
Pain m right arm, with stiffness of wrist and hand.
Aching pains all over.

Fever. — Chill at 11 a. m. Thirst for ice-water dur-
ing chill. No thirst with heat. Profuse sweat all night.
Terrific headache during sweat.

Relationship. — Compare: alrum,; Sang.; Lach,

Dose. — First to sixth potency.

(Prickly Ash)
XANTHOXYLUM

Tts specific action is on the nervous system and
mucous membranes. Paralysis, epecially hemiplegic.
Painful hemorrhages, after-pains, neuralgic dysmenor-
rhaa, and rheumatic affections, offer a therapeutic field
XANTHOXYLUM 781

for this remedy, especially in patients of spare habit and
nervous, delicate organization. Indigestion from over-
eating or from too much fluid. Sluggish capillary cir-
culation. Neurasthenia, poor assimilation, insomnia,
occipital headache.

Mind. — Nervous, frightened. Mental depression.

Head.— Feels full. Weight and pain on vertex.
Pain over eyes, throbbing pressure over nose, pressure
in forchead; head seems divided; ringing in ears. Oc-
cipital headache. Sick headache with dizziness and
flatulence.

Face. — Neuralgia of lower jaw. Dryness of mouth
and fauces. Pharyngitis. [}’yethia.]

Abdomen. — Griping and diarrhoea. Dysentery, with
twmpaniles, tenesmus; inodorous discharges.

Female. -— Menses too carly and painful. Ovarian
neuralgia, with pain in loins and lower abdomen;
worse, [cfi side, extending down the thigh, along
genito-crural nerves. Neuralgic dysmenorrhaa, with
neuralgic headaches; pain in back and down lvgs.
Menses thick, almost black. After-pains. [Arnica;
Cup.,.Cham.] Leucorrhoea at time of menses. Neuras-
thenic patients who are thin, emaciated; poor assimila-
tion with insomnia and occipital headache.

Respiratory. — Aphonia. Constant desire to take a
_ long breath; oppression of chest. Dry cough, day and
night.

Extremities. — Paralysis of left side following spinal
disorders. Numbness of left side; impairment of
nerves of motion. Hemiplegia. Pain in nape, extend-
ing down back. Sciatica; worse, hot weather. Anterior,
crural neuralgia. [Staph.] Left arm numb. Neuralgic
shooting pain, as from electricity, all over limbs.
782 XANTHOXYLUM — XEROPHYLLUM

Sleep. — Hard and unrefreshing; dreams of flying.
Sleeplessness in neurasthenics.
Relationship. — Compare: Gnaph.; Cimicif.; Staph.;
Meser.; Piscida. White dogwood (pains of irregular
menstruation; regulates the flow; sudden profound
sleep. Neuralgic and spasmodic affections.)
Dose. — First to sixth potency.

XEROPHYLLUM
(Tamalpais Lily. Basket Grass Flower)

Should prove curative in eczematous conditions, poi-
son-oak, early typhoid states, etc.

Mind, — Dull, cannot concentrate mind for study;
forgets names; writes last letters of words first; mis-
spells common words,

Head. — Feels full, stuffed up, pain across forehead
and above eyes. Great pressure at rout of nose. Be-
wildered. Loss of consciousness.

Eyes. — Painful, as of sand, smarting; difficult to
focus for close work,

Nose. — Stuffed; tightness at bridge of nose; acute
nasal catarrh,

Face. --- Bloated in morning. Puffy under eyes.
Throat. — Stitching pain upon swallowing.
Stomach. — Feels full and heavy. Eructations sour; .

offensive, an hour after Juncheon and dinner. Vomit-
ing at 2 P.M.
Abdomen. — Intestinal flatulence. In morning rum-
bling in bowels, with desire for stool.
Rectum. — Constipation, stools hard, small lumps.
Difficult, soft stools, with much straining. Much flatus.
Bearing-down pain in rectum.
XEROPHYLLUM — X-RAY 783

Urine. — Difficulty of retaining; dribbling when
walking. Frequent urination at night.

Female. — Bearing-down sensation. Vulva inflamed,
with furious itching. Increased sexual desire, with
ovarian and uterine pains and leucorrhea,

Respiratory. — Posterior nares raw; discharge thick,
yellow mucus. Sneezing. Trachea sore; lumps feel
constricted,

Back. -- Feels hot from sacrum to scapule. Back-
ache, extending down legs. Pain over kidneys. Heat
deep in spine.

Extremities. — Muscular lameness, trembling, Pain
in knees. Limbs feel stiff. [Rhus.]

Skin. — Erythema, with vesication and intense itch-
ing, stinging, and burning. Blisters, little lumps. Skin
rough and cracked; feels like leather. Dermatitis,
especially around knees. Inflammation resembling
pvison oak. Inguinal glands and behind knee swollen.

Modalities. — Worse, application of cold water, in
afternoon and evening. Better, application of hot water,
in morning, moving affected part.

Relationship. — Compare: Rhus; Anacard.; Grin-
delia,

Dose. — Sixth potency or higher.

X-RAY
(Vial containing alcohol exposed to X-Ray)

Repeated exposure to Roentgen (X-ray) has pro-
duced skin lesions often followed by cancer. Distress-
ing pain. Sexual glands are particularly affected.
Atrophy of ovaries and testicles. Sterility. Changes
take place in the blood lymphatics and bone marrow.
784 X-RAY

Anemia and leukemia. - Corresponds to stubbornness
as in burns, they refuse to heal. Psoriasis.

Has the property of stimulating cellular metabolism.
Arouses the reactive vitality, mentally and physically.
Brings to the surface suppressed symptoms, especially
sycotic and those due to mixed infections. Its ho-
meeopathic action is thus centrifugal, towards the peri-
phery.

Head. — Sticking pains in different parts of head and
face. Dull pain in right upper jaw. Stiff neck. Sud-
den cricks in neck, pains more severe behind ears.
Pain in muscles of neck when lifting head from pillow.
Fullness in ears, ringing in head,

Mouth. — Tongue dry, rough, sore. Throat painful
on swallowing. Nausea.

Male.— Lewd dreams. Sexual desire lost. Re-
establishes suppressed gonorrhcea,

Extremities. -— Rheumatic pains. General tired and
sick feeling. Palms rough and scaly.

Skin. — Dry, itching eczema. Erythema around roots
of nails. Skin dry, wrinkled. Painful cracks. Warty
growths. Nails thicken. Psoriasis.

Modalities. — Jl orse, in bed. afternoon, evening and
night; open air,
Dose. — Twelfth potency and higher.

Compare: Electricitas—Sugar of milk saturated
with the current, (Anxiety. nervous tremors, rest-
lessness, palpitation, headaches. Dreads approach of
thunder-storms; heaviness of limbs.)

Magnetis Poli Ambo—The Magnet.—Sugar of milk
or'@istilled water exposed to influence of entire magnet.
Warning Jancinations throughout the body; pains as
X-RAY — YOHIMBINUM 785

if broken in joints, when cartilages of two bones touch;
shooting and jerkings; headache as if a nail were
driven in; tendency of old wounds to bleed afresh.)
Maynetis Polus Arcticus.— North pole of the mag-
net. — (Disturbed sleep, somnambulism, cracking in
cervical vertebra, sensation of coldness; toothache.)
Magnetis Polus Australis. — South pole of the
magnet. -— (Severe pain in inner side of nail of the
big tae, iarowing toe-nail, easy dislocation of joint of
foot; feet are painful when letting them hang down.)

YOHIMBINUM
(Johimbin)

Excites sexual organs ard central nervous system. A
potent aphrodisiac, used in physiological doses. Ho-
moeopathically, should be of service in congestive condi-
tions of the sexual organs. Causes hyperemia of the
milk glands and stimulates the function of lactation.

Head. — Agitation, with flying sensations of heat in
face. Disagreeable, metallic taste. Copious salivation.
Nausea and eructation.

Sexual—Strong and lasting erections. Bleeding
piles, Intestinal hemorrhage. Urethritis.

Fever. — Rigor; intense heat, waves of heat and
chilliness, tendency to sweat,

Sleep. — Sleepless. Thoughts of events of whole past
life keep him awake.

Dose. — As a sexual stimulant, ten drops of a one

per cent. solution, or hypodermic tablets of 0.005 gm.
Homeopathic dose, third potency.
786 YUCCA FILAMENTOSA — ZINCUM METALLICUM

YUCCA FILAMENTOSA
(Bear-grass)

So-called bilious symptoms, with headache. De-
spondent and irritable.

Head. — Aches as if top of head would fly off. Ar-
teries of forehead throb. Nose red.

Face.— Yellow; tongue yeilow, coated, taking im-
print of teeth. [Merc.; Pod.; Rhus.]

Mouth. — Taste as of rotten eggs. [Arnica.]

Throat, — Sensation as if something hung down from
posterior nares; cannot get it up or down.

Abdomen. — Deep pain in right side over liver, going
through back. Stool yellowish brown, with bile.

Male. — Burning and swelling of the prepuce, with
redness of meatus. Gonorrhea. [Cann.; Tussil.]

Skin. — Erythematous redness.
Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

ZINCUM METALLICUM
(Zinc)

The provings picture cerebral depression. The nerv-
ous symptoms of most importance. Defective vitality.
Impending brain paralysis. Pcriod of depression in
disease. Spinal affections. Twitchings. Pain, as if
between skin and flesh. Great relief from discharges.
Chorea, from fright or suppressed eruption. Convui-
sions, with pale face und no heat. Marked anemia with
profound prostration. It causes a decrease in the num-
ber, and destruction of red blood corpuscles.

Mind.— Weak memory. Very sensitive to soise.
Averse to work, to talk. Child repeats everything said
786 YUCCA FILAMENTOSA — ZINCUM METALLICUM

YUCCA FILAMENTOSA
(Bear-grass)

So-called bilious symptoms, with headache. De-
spondent and irritable.

Head. — Aches as if top of head would fly off. Ar-
teries of forehead throb. Nose red.

Face.— Yellow; tongue yeilow, coated, taking im-
print of teeth. [Merc.; Pod.; Rhus.]

Mouth. — Taste as of rotten eggs. [Arnica.]

Throat, — Sensation as if something hung down from
posterior nares; cannot get it up or down.

Abdomen. — Deep pain in right side over liver, going
through back. Stool yellowish brown, with bile.

Male. — Burning and swelling of the prepuce, with
redness of meatus. Gonorrhea. [Cann.; Tussil.]

Skin. — Erythematous redness.
Dose. — Tincture, to third potency.

ZINCUM METALLICUM
(Zinc)

The provings picture cerebral depression. The nerv-
ous symptoms of most importance. Defective vitality.
Impending brain paralysis. Pcriod of depression in
disease. Spinal affections. Twitchings. Pain, as if
between skin and flesh. Great relief from discharges.
Chorea, from fright or suppressed eruption. Convui-
sions, with pale face und no heat. Marked anemia with
profound prostration. It causes a decrease in the num-
ber, and destruction of red blood corpuscles.

Mind.— Weak memory. Very sensitive to soise.
Averse to work, to talk. Child repeats everything said
ZINCUM METALLICUM 787

to it. Fears arrest on account of a supposed crime.
Melancholia. Lethargic, stupid. Paresis.

Head. — Feels as if he would fall to left side. Head-
ache from the smallest quantity of wine. Hydrocepha-
lus. Rolls head from side to side. Bores head into
pillow. Occipital pain, with weight on vertex. Auto-
matic motion of head and hands. Brain-fag; head-
aches of overtaxed school children. Forehcad cool;
base of brain hot. Roaring in head. Starting in fright.

Eyes. — Pterygium; smarting, lachrymation, itching.
Pressure as if pressed into head. Jtching and soreness
of lids and inner angles. Ptesis. Rulling of eyes.
Blurring of one-half of vision; worse, stimulants.
Sguinting. Amaurosis, with severe headache. Red and
inflamed conjunctiva; worse, inner canihus,

Ears. -- Tearing, stitches, and external swelling. Dis-
charge of fetid pus.

Nose. — Sore feeling high up; pressure upon root.

Face. — Pale lips, and corners of mouth cracked. Red-
ness and itching eruption on chin. Tearing in facial
bones.

Mouth.— Teeth loose. Gums bleed. Gnashing of
teeth. Bloody taste. Blisters on tongue. Difficult den-
tition; child weak; cold and restless feet.

Throat. — Dry; constant inclination to hawk up ten-
acious mucus. Rawness and dryness in throat and
larynx. Pain in muscles of throat when swallowing.

Stomach. — Hiccough, nausea, vomiting of bitter
mucus. Burning in stomach, heartburn from sweet
things. Cannot stand smallest quantity of wine. Rav-
enous hunger about 11 a. M. [Sulph.] Great greedi-
ness when eating; cannot eat fast enough. Atonic dys-
pepsia, feeling as if stomach were collapsed.
788 ZINCUM METALLICUM

Abdomen. — Pain after a light meal, with tympanitis.
Pain in a spot beneath navel. Gurgling and griping;
distended. Flatulent colic, with retraction of abdomen.
[Plumb.] Enlarged, indurated sore liver. Reflex
symptoms from floating kidney. Griping after cating.

Urine. — Can only void urine when sitting bent back-
wards. Tysterical retention. Involuntary urination
when walking, coughing or sneezing.

Rectum. — Hard, small, constipated stool Cholera
infantum, with tenesmus; grecn mucous discharges.
Sudden cessation of diarrheea, followed hy cerebral
symptoms,

Male. — Testicles swelled, drawn up. Erections vio-
lent. Emissions with hypochondriasis. Falling off of
hair (pubic). Drawing in testicles up to spermatic
cord.

Female. — Ovarian pain, especially icft; can't keep
still, [Viburn.] Nymphomania of lying-in women.
Menses too late, suppressed; lochia suppressed. [Puls.]
Breasts painful. Nipples sore. Menses flow more at
night. [Boz.] Complaints all better during menstrual
flow. [Eupion; Lach.] All the female symptoms are
associated with restlessness, depression, coldness, spinal
tenderness and restless feet.

Respiratory.— Burning pressure beneath sternum.
Constriction and cutting in chest. Hoarseness. De-
bilitating, spasmodic cough; worse, eating sweet things.
Child grasps genitals during cough. Asthmatic bron-
chitis, with constriction of chest. Dyspnaa better as
SOON as capectoration appears.

Back.-— Pain in small of back. Cannot bear back
touched, [Sul.; Therid.; Cinch.] Tension and stinging
between shoulders, Spinal irritation. Dull aching about
ZINCUM METALLICUM 789

the last dorsal or first lumbar vertebre; worse sitting.
Burning along spine. Nape of neck weary from writing
or any exertion. Tearing in shoulder-blades.

Extremities. — Lameness, weakness, trembling and
twitching of various muscles. Chilblains. [Agar.]
Feet in continued motion; cannot keep still. Large
varicose veins on legs. Sweaty. Convulsions, with pale
face. Transverse pains, especially in upper extremity.
Soles of fect sensitive. Steps with entire sole of foot
on floor.

Sleep. — Cries out during sleep; body jerks; wakes
frightened, stares. Nervous motion of feet when asleep.
Loud screaming out at night in sleep without being
aware of it. Somnambulism. [Auli phos.]

Skin. — Vuricose veins, especially of lower extremi-
ties. [Puls,] Formication of feet and legs as from
bugs crawling over the skin, preventing sleep. Ec~-
zema, especially in the anamic and neurotic. Itching
of thighs and hollow of knees. Retrocession of erup-
tions. °

Fever. — Frequent, febrile shiverings down hack.
Cold extremities. Night-sweat. Profuse sweat on feet.

Modalities. — Worse, at menstrual period, from touch,
between 5 to 7 p. m.; after dinner, from wine. Better,
while eating, discharges, and appearance of eruptions.

Relationship. — Compare: Agaric.; Ign.; Plumb.
Argent.; Puls.; Helleb.; Tuberc. Inimical: Nux
Cham. Compare in amelioration by secretions: Lach.
Stan.; Mosch.

Compare: Zincum aceticum (effects of night-watch-
ing and erysipelas; brain feels sore; Rademacher’s
solution, five-drop doses three times a day in water,
for those who are compelled to work, on an insufficient
amount of sleep); Zinc, bromatum (dentition, chorea,
790 ZINCUM METALLICUM — ZINCUM VALERIANUM

hyrocephalus; Zinc. oxydatum (hypochrondriasis due
to masturbation); Zinc. cyanatum (as a remedy for
meningitis and cerebro-spinal meningitis, paralysis
agitans, chorea, and hysteria, it has received some at-
tention); Zinc. ars. (chorea, anemia, profound ex-
haustion on slight exertion. Depression and marked
involvement of lower extremities); Zinc. carb. (post-
gonorrheal throat affections, tonsils swollen, bluish
superficial spots); Zinc. phos. (herpes zoster 1x);
Zinc. muriat. (disposition to pick the bedclothes; sense
of smell and taste perverted; bluish-green tint of skin;
cold and sweaty); Zinc. phos. (neuralgia of head and
face; lightning-like pains in locomotor ataxia, brain-
fag, nervousness, and vertigo; sexual excitement and
sleeplessness); Ammon. valerian (violent neuralgia,
with great nervous agitation); Zinc. picricum (facial
paralysis; brain-fag, headache in Bright’s disease;
seminal emissions; loss of memory and energy); Zinc.
sulph, (corneitis; granular lids; tongue paralyzed;
cramps in arms and legs; trembling and convulsions).

Dose. — Second to sixth potency.

ZINCUM VALERIANUM
(Valerinate of Zinc)

A remedy for neuralgia, hysteria, angina pectoris, and
other painful affections, notably in ovarian affections.
Epilepsy without aura. Hysterical heart-pain. Facial
neuralgia, violent in left temple and inferior maxillary.
Sleeplessness in children. Obstinate hiccough.

Head. — Violent, neuralgic, intermittent headaches,
Becomes almost insane with pain, which is piercing and
stabbing. Uncontrollable sleeplessness from pain in
head with melancholy.
ZINCUM VALERIANUM — ZINGIBER 791

Female. — Ovaralgia; pain shoots down limbs, even
to foot.

Extremities. — Severe pain in neck and spine. Can-
not sit still; must keep legs in constant motion. Sciatic
neuralgia.

Dose. — First and second trituration. Must be con-
tinued for some time in treatment of neuralgia.

ZINGIBER
(Ginger)

States of debility in the digestive tract, and sexual
system and respiratory troubles, call for this remedy.

Head. — Hemicrania; sudden glimmering before eyes;
feels confused and empty. Pain over eyebrows.

Nose. — Feels obstructed and dry. Intolerable itch-
ing; red pimples.

Stomach, — Taste of food remains long, especially of
bread and toast. Feels heavy, like from a stone. Com-

plaints from eating melons and drinking impure water.
Acidity. [Calc.; Robinia.)

Abdomen. — Colic, diarrhcea, extremely loose bowels.
Diarrhoea from drinking bad water, with much flatu-
lence, cutting pain, relaxation of sphincter. Hot, sore,
painful anus during. pregnancy. Chronic intestinal ca-
tarrh. Anus red and inflamed. Hemorrhoids hot, pain-
fyl, sore. [Aloe.]

Urinary. — Complete cessation of function of kidneys.
Frequent desire to urinate. Stinging, burning in orifice.
Yellow discharge from urethra. Urine thick, turbid, of
strong odor, suppressed. Complete suppression after
typhoid. After urinating, continues to ooze in drops.
792 ZINGIBER

Male. — Itching of prepuce. Sexual desire excited;
painful erections. Emissions.

Respiratory. — Hoarseness. Smarting below larynx;
breathing difficult. Asthma, without anxiety, worse to-
ward morning. Scratching sensation in throat; stitches
in chest. Cough dry, hacking; copious morning sputa.

Extremities. — Very weak in all joints. Back lame.
Cramps in soles and palms.

Relationship. — Compare: Calad.
Antidote: Nuzx.
Dose. — First to sixth potency.
REPERTORY
REPERTORY
MIND

AWKWARD — Lets things fall from hand: Eth ; Apis; Bov.;
Helleb.; Ign.; Lach.; Nat. m.; Nux v.; Tar. h.

BRAIN-FAG -— Zith.; Ail; Alfal; Anac.; Anhal.; Arg. n.;
Avena; Bapt.; Cale. ¢.; Cale. p.; Coca; Coce.; Cupr. m;
Gels.; Kali br.; Kal: p.; Lecith.; Nat. m.; Nux v.: Phos.
ac., Phos; Pur. ac.; Sil; Strych. p.; Zine. m.: Zone.
p.; Zinc. pror, See Neurasthenia (Nervous System).

CATALEPSY — Trance: Acon; Art vj; Camph. monobr.;
Can, wmd.; Cham.; Cic.; Crot. casc., Cur.; Cels.; Uydroc.
ae Hyos.; Lach.; Merc.; Morph., Mosch.; Nux m.; Op.;
otrani

CLAIRVOYANCE — Acon.; Anac.; Can. ind.; Nabulus; Nux
m.: Phos See Mallucinations.

COMPREHENSION — Difficult: Agn.;  Ail.; Anac.;  Bapt.;
Coce ;_ Gels.; Helleb.; Lyc.; Nat. c; Nur m.; Oleand.;
Op.;_ Phos. ac.; Phos.; Plumb, m.; Xcrophyl., Zinc. m.
See Memory.

COMPREHENSION — Easy: Bell.; Coff.; Lach.

CONSCIOUSNESS—Loss: Aodsinth.; A1i.; Arn.; Atrop.; Bell.;
Can, ind.; Carb. ac.; Cic.; Cupr. ac ; Gels.; Glon.; Helleb.;
Hydroc. ac., Hvyos.; Mur. ac.; Nux m; CEnanthe; Op.;
Stram; Xerophyl.; Zinc. m.

CRETINISM — Imbecility, Idiocy: Absinth.; £th.; _Anac.;
Arn.; Bac.; Bar. c.; Bar. m3; Bufo; Cale. p.; Helleb.;
Ign. Tod.; Lol.; Oxytrop.; Phos. ac.; Plumb. m.; Sul.;

hy.

DELIRIUM — Alcoholic (delirium tremens): Acon.;  <Agar.;
Ant. t.; Atrop.; Bell.; Can. ind.; Caps.; Chin. s.; Cim.;
Dig.; Hyos.; Hyosc hydrobr.; Kali br.; Lach.; Lupul.;
Nux_v.: Ops Passifl.; Pastin.; Ron, b., Stram.; Strych,
n.; Sumb.; Teucr.

Carphologia (picking at bed clothes, flocks)— Agar.;
Atrop.: Bell.; Helleb.; Hyos.; Mur. ac.; Op.; Stram.; Zinc.
mur.

» Coma Vigil —-Cur ; “Hyos., Mur. ac.; Op.; Phos.

Destructive (desire to bark, bite, strike, tear things) —
Bell.; Canth.; Cupr. m; Hyos.; Sec.; Stram.; Ver. a;
Ver. v.

Effort to escape from bed, or hide — Acon.; Agar.; Bell.;
Brv.; Cupr. m.; Hyos; Opere.; Op.; Rhus t.; Stram.;

Furor, frenzy, ravings — Acon.; Agar.; Bell.; Canth.; Cic.;
Cupr. m.; Hyos. ; Merce. cy.; CEnanthe; Solan. n.; Stram.:
Ver. a.

Lascivious furor — Canth.; Hyos.; Phos.; Stram.; Ver. a.

Loquacity, talks incessantly — Agar.; Bell.; Can. ind.; Cim.;
Hyos., Lach, Mere cy.; Operc.; Stram:: Ver a
794 MIND

Merry, dancing, singing — Agar.;  Bell.;  Hyos.;  Stram.;

er, a.

Muttering, low, incoherently — Agar.; Ail; Apis;  <Arn.;
Bapt.; Bell.; Crot.; Helleb.; Hyos.; Lach.; Mur. ac.;
Phos. ac.; Phos.; Rhus t.; Stram.; Ver. a

Rapid answering —Cim; Lach., Stram; Ver. a

Slow answering, relapses—_ Arn.;  Bapt.;  Helleb ; Hyos.;
Phos. ac., Phos.; Sul.

Sopor, stupor, coma — /Eth.; Agar; Atl; Am. c; Apis;
Arn.; Bapt.; Bell.; Benz. nit.; Camph.; Corb. ac.; Gels.;
Helleb., os.; Laur.; Lob. purp.; Mur. ac.; Nitr. sp. d.;
Nux m.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Piloc.; Rhus t.; Stram.;
Tereb.; Thyr.; Ver. a.; Zinc. m.

DEMENTIA — Agar., Anac.; Apium v.; Bell.; Cale. ¢.; Cale.
p.; Can. ind.; Con.; Helleb.; Hyos.; Ign.; Lil. t., Merc.;
Nat. sal.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Picr. ac.; Sul.; Ver. a.

Epileptic — Acon.; Bell.; Cim.; Cupr. ac.; Cupr. m.; Laur.;
Gnanthe; Sil.; Solan. c.3; Stram.; Ver. v

Masturbatic— Agn., Calc. pi Canth.; Caust.; Damiana;
Nux v.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Pier. ac.; Staph.

Paretic — Acon.; isc. gl.; Agar.; Ars; Bad.; Bell.; Can.
ind.; Cim; Cupr. m.; Hyos.; 1en.; Iodof.; Merc; Phos.,
Plumb, m.; Stram.; Ver. v.; Zinc. m.

Senile— Anac.; Aur. tod.; Bar. ac.; Bar. c.; Cale. p.; Con.;
Nat. iod.; Phos.; Sec.

Syphilitic— Aur. 10d.; Kali iod.; Mercuries; Nit. ac.; Sul.

EMOTIONS — Effects: Anger, bad news, disappointment,
vexation: Acon.; Apis; Ars.; Aur.; Bry.; Cham.; Cocc.;
Colch.; Col., Gels.; Crat.; Hyos.; Ign; Nur v.; Puls.;
Sep., Staph.

Fright, fear— Acon.; Apis; Bell.; Gels.; Hyos.;  Ign.;
Morph.; Of., Puls.; Samb.; Ver. a.

Grief, sorrow -- Apis; Am. m.; Aur. m.; Cale. p.; Caust.;
Hyos.; Jgn.; Nat. m.; Phos. ac.; Plat.

Jealousy — Apis; Hyos.; Lach.; Staph.

Joy, excessive — Caust.; Coff.; Croc.

Nostalgia (homesickness) —- Caps.; Eup. pu:p.; Helleb.;
Ign., Mag. m.; Phos. ac.; Senec.

FEARS — Dreads: Being carried or raised: Bor.; Bry.; Sanic.

Crossing streets, crowds, excitement — dcon.; Hydroc. ac.;

Plat.

Dark, ghosts— Acon.; Ars.; Bell.; Carb. v.; Caust.; Hyos.;
Lyc.; Med.; Op.; Phos.; Puls.; Radium; Stram.

Death, fatal diseases, impending evil —Acon.; Agn.; Anac.}

pis; Arg. n.; Ars.; Aur.; Coct.; Cale. c.; Cim.; Dig.;
Gels.; Graph.; Hydr.; Ign.; Kali ¢; Lae c.; Lil. t., Naja;
Nat. m.; Nit. oc.; Nux_v.; Phaseol.; Phos; Plat.; Pod.;
Psor.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Sec.; Sep.; Stann.; Staph.; Still.;
Svph ; Ver. a. .

Downward motion, falling —or.; Gels.; Hyper.; Sonic.

Heart ceases beating, must move — Gels, (reverse Dig.).

Lectophobise — Can. 38.

Loss of reason — Acon.; Alum; Arg. n.;_Cale. ¢.; Can.
ynd.; Chlorum; Cim.; Tod.; Kali br.; Lac c; Leth t.;
Moanein.; Med.; Plat ; Sep.; Syph.; Ver. a.

Motion — Bry.; Calad.; Gels.; Mag. p.
794 MIND

Merry, dancing, singing — Agar.;  Bell.;  Hyos.;  Stram.;

er, a.

Muttering, low, incoherently — Agar.; Ail; Apis;  <Arn.;
Bapt.; Bell.; Crot.; Helleb.; Hyos.; Lach.; Mur. ac.;
Phos. ac.; Phos.; Rhus t.; Stram.; Ver. a

Rapid answering —Cim; Lach., Stram; Ver. a

Slow answering, relapses—_ Arn.;  Bapt.;  Helleb ; Hyos.;
Phos. ac., Phos.; Sul.

Sopor, stupor, coma — /Eth.; Agar; Atl; Am. c; Apis;
Arn.; Bapt.; Bell.; Benz. nit.; Camph.; Corb. ac.; Gels.;
Helleb., os.; Laur.; Lob. purp.; Mur. ac.; Nitr. sp. d.;
Nux m.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Piloc.; Rhus t.; Stram.;
Tereb.; Thyr.; Ver. a.; Zinc. m.

DEMENTIA — Agar., Anac.; Apium v.; Bell.; Cale. ¢.; Cale.
p.; Can. ind.; Con.; Helleb.; Hyos.; Ign.; Lil. t., Merc.;
Nat. sal.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Picr. ac.; Sul.; Ver. a.

Epileptic — Acon.; Bell.; Cim.; Cupr. ac.; Cupr. m.; Laur.;
Gnanthe; Sil.; Solan. c.3; Stram.; Ver. v

Masturbatic— Agn., Calc. pi Canth.; Caust.; Damiana;
Nux v.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Pier. ac.; Staph.

Paretic — Acon.; isc. gl.; Agar.; Ars; Bad.; Bell.; Can.
ind.; Cim; Cupr. m.; Hyos.; 1en.; Iodof.; Merc; Phos.,
Plumb, m.; Stram.; Ver. v.; Zinc. m.

Senile— Anac.; Aur. tod.; Bar. ac.; Bar. c.; Cale. p.; Con.;
Nat. iod.; Phos.; Sec.

Syphilitic— Aur. 10d.; Kali iod.; Mercuries; Nit. ac.; Sul.

EMOTIONS — Effects: Anger, bad news, disappointment,
vexation: Acon.; Apis; Ars.; Aur.; Bry.; Cham.; Cocc.;
Colch.; Col., Gels.; Crat.; Hyos.; Ign; Nur v.; Puls.;
Sep., Staph.

Fright, fear— Acon.; Apis; Bell.; Gels.; Hyos.;  Ign.;
Morph.; Of., Puls.; Samb.; Ver. a.

Grief, sorrow -- Apis; Am. m.; Aur. m.; Cale. p.; Caust.;
Hyos.; Jgn.; Nat. m.; Phos. ac.; Plat.

Jealousy — Apis; Hyos.; Lach.; Staph.

Joy, excessive — Caust.; Coff.; Croc.

Nostalgia (homesickness) —- Caps.; Eup. pu:p.; Helleb.;
Ign., Mag. m.; Phos. ac.; Senec.

FEARS — Dreads: Being carried or raised: Bor.; Bry.; Sanic.

Crossing streets, crowds, excitement — dcon.; Hydroc. ac.;

Plat.

Dark, ghosts— Acon.; Ars.; Bell.; Carb. v.; Caust.; Hyos.;
Lyc.; Med.; Op.; Phos.; Puls.; Radium; Stram.

Death, fatal diseases, impending evil —Acon.; Agn.; Anac.}

pis; Arg. n.; Ars.; Aur.; Coct.; Cale. c.; Cim.; Dig.;
Gels.; Graph.; Hydr.; Ign.; Kali ¢; Lae c.; Lil. t., Naja;
Nat. m.; Nit. oc.; Nux_v.; Phaseol.; Phos; Plat.; Pod.;
Psor.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Sec.; Sep.; Stann.; Staph.; Still.;
Svph ; Ver. a. .

Downward motion, falling —or.; Gels.; Hyper.; Sonic.

Heart ceases beating, must move — Gels, (reverse Dig.).

Lectophobise — Can. 38.

Loss of reason — Acon.; Alum; Arg. n.;_Cale. ¢.; Can.
ynd.; Chlorum; Cim.; Tod.; Kali br.; Lac c; Leth t.;
Moanein.; Med.; Plat ; Sep.; Syph.; Ver. a.

Motion — Bry.; Calad.; Gels.; Mag. p.
MIND 795

Music — Acon.; Ambra; Bufo; Nat. c.; Nux v.; Sab.; Tar.
h.: Thuya.

Noises — Acon.; Asar.; Bell., Bor ; Calad.; Cham.; Coce.;
Ferr ; Ign.; Kali_c.; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Phos.; Sil.; Tanac.;
Tar. h.; Ther.; Zine. m.

People (anthropophobia) — Acon.; Ambra; Anac.; Aur,
Bar. c., Con.: Gels.; 1gn.s Tod.; Kali p.; Lyc.; Mel;
Nat. c.; Nat. m.; Sep.; Stann.; Staoh.

Places closed —- Succin.

Pointed objects — Sil.; Spig.

Poison —Hyos.; Kali br.; Lach.; Rhus t.; Ver. v.

Rain — Naja.

Solitude, aversion to — Ant. t.; Ars.; Bism.; Con.; Hyos.;
Kal. c.; Lac c.; Lik t3 Lye; Naja; Phos.; Puls.;
Radium; Sep.; Stram.; Thymol.

Solitude, desire for — Ambra; Aragal.; 4rs. «.:; Aur.; Bar.
c.; Biy.; Bufo, Cact.; Caps.; Carbo _an.; Cim; Coca;
Cycl.; Gels.; Ign.; lod.; Nat. ¢; Nat. m; Nuwe v;
Oxytr.; Phos. ac.; Staph.; Thuya.

Space (agoraphobia) — Acon.; Arg. n.; Arn; Caic. ¢; Hy-
droc ac.; Nux v.

Stage-fright — Anac.; Arg. n.; Gels.
philis —- Hyos.
under-storms — Bor.; Electricitas; Nat. c.; Phos.; Psor.;
Rhod.; Sil.

Touch, contact — Acon.; Ant. c.; Ant. t.; Apis; Arn; Bell.;
Cham.; Cina; Cinch.; Colch.; Hep.; lod.; Kali c.; Lach.;
Mag. Bi Nux_v.; Phos.; Plumb.; Sep.; Spig.; Stram.;
Sul.; Tar. he; Thuya.

Water (hydrophobia) — Agave; Anag.; Ant. ¢.; Beli. ;
Canth.; Coccinel.; Fagus; Hyos.; Lach; Laur.; Lyssin;
Spirea; Stram.; Sul.; Tanac.; Ver. a.; Xanth. sp.

HYPOCHONDRIASIS -— Alfal.; Aloe; Alum.; Anac.; Arg. 1;
Ars.; Aur. m.; Aur. mur,; Avena; Cact.; Cole. ¢.; Cim.;
Con.; Ferr. m.; Helon.; Hydroe. ac.; Hyos.; Ign.; li
br.; Kal p.; Lyc.; Mere.; Nat. c.; Not. m.; Nux v., Phos.
ac.; Piumb.; Pod.; Puls.; Stann.; Staph; Sul.; Sumb.;
Tar. h.; Thasp. 2.; Thuya; Val; Ver. a; Zinc. m;
Zine. oxy. Asaf

HYSTERIA — Acon.; Agn.; | Ambra; Apis; Aquil.; saf.;
Aster.; Bell.; Cact.; Cajup.; Camph. monobr.; Can, ind;
Castor.; Caul.; Cham; Cim.; Cocc.; Con.; Croc.; Eup.
ar.; Gels.; Hyos.; Ign.; Kali p.; Lil. t.; Mag. m.; Mosch.;
Myg.; Nu«e m.; Orig.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Piat.; Poth.;
Pubs. + Scutel.; Sertec.; Sep.; Stram.; Strych. p.; Sumb.;
Tar. h.; Ther.; Val.; Zinc. v.

IMAGINATION — Fancies, hallucinations, illusions: Acute
vivid: Absinth; Acon.; Ambra; Bell; Con. smd.;_Dub.;
Hyos.; Kali c.; Lach.; Op.; Rhus tj Scopal.; Stram.;
Sul.; Ver. a. See Hallucinations.

Away from home, must get there — Bry.; Cale. p.; Cim;
Hyos.; Op. .

Bed sinking — Bapt.; Bell.; Bens.; Kali c.

Bed too hard. — 4rn.; Bopt.; Bry.; Morph; Pyr.; Ruta.

Being abused or criticized — Bar. c.; Cocaine; Hyos.; Ign.;
Pallad.; Staph. . ;

Being assassinated — Absinth.; Kali br.; Plumb. m.
796 MIND

Being broken in fragments, scattered about— Bapt.; Daph.;
Petrol., Phos,; Stram.

Being crushed by housea — Arg. n.

Being dead — Ajis; Lach.; Mosch.; Op.

Being demon, curses, swears — Anac.

Being doomed, lost to salvation — Acon.; Ars.; Aur.; Cycl.;
Lach.; Lil. ¢., Lye.; Meli.; Op.; Plat.; Psor.; Puls.;
Stram.: Sul.; Ver. a

Being double, (dual personality) — Anac.; Bapt.; Can. ind.;
Petrol ; Stram.; Thuya; Val.

Being enveloped in dark cloud, world black and sinister
--Arg. n.; Cam.; Lac c.; Puls.

Being frightened by a mouse running from under a chair
~- 4th; Cim., Lac c.

Being guilty of some committed crime — Ars.; Cina; Cycl.;
Jgn., Nux v.; Ruta: Ver. a.; Zine m.

Being hollow in organs — Cocc.; Oxytr.

Being in strange surroundings— Cic.; Hyos; Plat.; Tub.

Being light, spirit-like, hovering in the air — Asar.; Dat.
arb.; Hyper.: Lac c.; Latrod. has.; Nat. ars.; Op; Rhus
gl.; Stcta; Val.

Being made of glass, wood, etc. —— Eupion; Rhus t.; Thya.

Being occupied about business — Bry.; Op.

Being persecuted by his enemies —- Anac.; Cinch.; Cocaine;
Hyos.; Kal br.; Lech.; Nux v.; Plumb. m.; Rhus t;
Stram,

Being poisoned — Hyos.; Lach.; Rhus t.; Ver. v.

Being possessed by two wills — Anac.; Lach.

Being possessed of brain in stomach — Acon.

Being possessed of two noses— Merc. per.

Being pregnant, or something alive in the abdomen —
Croc.; Cycl.; Op; Sabad.; Thuya; Ver. a.

Being pursued — Asac.; Hyos.; Stram. .

Being separated body and soul -—— 4xac.; Nit. ac.; Thuya.

Being swollen-— Acon.; Aran.; Arg. n.; Asaf.; Bapt.; Bov.;
Can. ind.; Glon.; Op.; Plat.

Being under superhuman control — Anac.; Lach; Op.;
Plat.; Thuya.

Being very sick — Sabad.

Being very wealthy — Phos.; Plat.; Pyr.; Sul.; Ver. a.

Dimensions of things larger— Acon.; Agar.; Arg. n.; Atrop.;
Bov.; Can. ind.; Gels.; Glon.; Hyos.; Op.; Paris.

Dimensions of things reversed — Camph. monobr. .

Dimensions of things smaller — Plat.

Duration of time and space lost or confused — Anhal.;
Can. ind.; Cic.; Glon.; Lach.

Duration of time changed, it passes too rapidly —- Cocc.;

r,

er,

Duration of Ume changed, it passes too slowly — Alum. ;

‘A bra; Anhal: Arg. #2; Eon. ind.; Med; Nux m.;
ux v.

Hallucinations—Remedies in general: Absinth; — Agar.;
Ambra; Anac.; Anhal.; Gian pafe Ars. ; Atrop.; -Bell.; Can.
ind.; Canth.; Cham; Chloral;' Cim.; ‘ocaine; Crot. casc.;
Hyos.; Kali br.; Lach.; Nat. sal.; Nux v.; Op.; Phos.;
Stram.; Sal.; Thea; Trion.; Zinc. mur.
MIND 797

Hallucinations, auditory (bells, music, voices) — A; ate;
Anac.; Antipyr.; Ars.; Bell.; Can. ind., Carbon. s.; Cham.
Cocaine; Elaps; Merc.; Naja; Nat. p.; Puls.; Stram.;

hea.

Hallucinations, olfactory — Agn.; Anac.; Ars.; Euph. amy.;
Op.; Paris; Puls.; Zinc. mur. P

Hallucinations, tactile -- Anac.; Canth.; Op.; Stram.

Hallucinations, visual (animals, bugs, faces) — Absinth.;
Agar; Ambra; Anhal.s Antipyr., Ars; Atrop., Bell.,
Cale. c.; Can. md.; Cim.; Cocaine; IZyos.; Kali br.; Lach.;
Morph ; Nat. sal.; Op.; Pastin.; Phos.; Plat.; Puls.; Sant.;
Stram.; Sul.; Val.; Ver. a.

INSANITY -- See Mania, Melancholia, Dementia.

LOQUACITY -- Agar ; Ambra; Bell ; Can. ind; Cim, Cocaine;
Eug. i.; Hyos.; Lach; Op.; Pastin.; Physal.; Stram.;
Tar. h; Val; Ver. a.

MANIA-—Remedies in general: Absinth ; ‘Icon.; Agar.; Anac.;
Ain.; Ars.; Atrop.; Bapt.; Bell; Biy.; Can. wd.: Canth.;
Chloial; Cim.; Cinch.; Croc.; Crot <cesc., Cupr. ac;
Cupr. m.; Glon.; Hyos., Kali br; Lach.; Laur.; Lil. t.;
I.yc ; Merc.; Nat. m; Nux v.; One O1ig.; Passit.; Phos. ;
Picr. ac.; Piscidia; Plat.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Sec.; Solan. n.;
Spig mat.; Spong.; ul. hydr.; Sul; Stram.; Tar. h.;

st.; Ver. a: Ver. v

Erotomania (nymphomania,  satyriasis) —- Ambra; Apis;
Bar. m., Cale. p; Can. ind.; Canth., Icrrula gl.; Ginseng;
Grat ; Hyos.; Lal. t.¢ Manein.: Murer; Orig ; Phos.; Pier.
ac.; Plat; Rohin.; Salix n.; Stram., Tar. h.; Ver a,

Lypemania -- Ars; Aur., Caust, Cie: Jgn.; Nux v.; Puls.

Monomania (kleptomania, etc.) —- disimth.; Cic.; Hyos.;
Oxyti1.; Plat.; Tar. h.

Puerperal——Agn.; Bell.; Cum.; Hyos; Plat.; Sec.; Senec.;
Stram.; Ver. a, Ver. v.

MELANCHOLIA—Remedies in general: Acon.; Agn.; Alum.;
Anac.; Arg. n.; Ars.; .tur.; Bapt.; Bell.; Cact.; Cale. 5
Camph.; Caust.; Cu.; Cinch.; Coff.; Con., Cycl; Dig.;
Ferr, m.; Gels.; Helleb ; Helon.; Ign.; lod.; Lach.; Lil. t.;
Lyc.; Mere.; Nat. m.; Nux m.; Nux v., Op.; Phos. ac.;
Phos.; Picr. ac; Plat.; Plumb, ac.; Pod.; Puls.; Sep.;
Sil.; Solan. c.; Stram.; Sul; Tar. h.; Thuya; Ver. a.;
Ver. v.; Zinc. m, .

Pubertic — Ant. c.: Helleb ; Mancin.; Nat. m.

Puerperal — Agn.; Bell.; Cim.; Nat. m.; Plat.; Ver. v.

* Religious — Ars.; dur. m.; Aur. mur.; Kali br.; Lil. t.3
eli.; Plumb.; Psor.; Puls.; Stram.; Sul.; Ver. a.
Sexual — Agn.; Aur.; Cim.; Con.; Lil. t.; Nux v.; Pier. ac;
MEMORY’ Sep eegetful, weak or lost: Absinth.; Acon.; ith

RY — Forgetful, weak or lost: inth.; 3 os
ped ; Alums; Ambra; Anac.; Anhal.; Arg. #.; Arn.; Aur;
Azar.; Bar. c.; Calad.; Cale, c.; Cale. Pi Camph.; Can.
wnd.; Carbo v.; Cocc.; Con.; Glycerin; Ichthy.; Kals br.;
Kali c.; Kali_p.; Lac c.; Lach.; ith.; Lyc.; Mere.; Nat.
ce: Nat. m.; Nit 1; Nux m; Nus v.; Oteand.; Op.; "Phos.
ac.; Phos.; Picr. ac.; Plumb. m; Rhod.; Rhus t.; Selen.;
Sep.; Sil; Sui; Tellur.; Thyr.; Zinc. m.; Zinc. p.; Zine.

picr.
798 MIND

Cannot remember familiar streets — Can. ind.; Glon.; Nux
m

Cannot remember names —- Anoc.; Tar. ac.; Chlorum; Eu-
onym.; Guaiac.; Hep.; Lye.; Sul.; Xerophyl.

Cannot remember right words (amnesic aphasia, para-
phasia) —- Agar.; Alum.; Anac.; Arag.; Arg. n.; Arn;
Cale c; Cale p.; Can. ind.; Cham.; Cinch.; Diose.; Kali
br.; Lac c; Lil. t.3 Lae; Nuwx m.; Phos. ac.; Plumb. m.;
Sumb ; Xerophyl. '

Difficulty or inability of fixing attention — Zth.; — Agar.;
Aan ; Aloe; Alum.; Anac.; Arag.; Arg. n; Bapt.; Bar. ¢.;
Can ind; Caust ; Con., Fagop.; Gels... Glon.; Glycerin;
Helleb.; Tehthy.; Indol; Irid; Lace: Lye: Ops: Nur ot:
Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Picr. ac.; Pitwit 5 i ; Staph.;
Sul; Xerophyl.; Zinc. m.

Omits letters, words — Benz ac; Cham.; Kali br.; Lac ¢;
Lach.; Lve.; Meli.; Nux m.; Nux v.

Thoughts, rapid —- Anac.: [Bell.; Can. «nd.; Cim.; Cinch.;
Coff.; Lac e.; Lach; Phasost

Thoughts, slow --- Agu.; Caps.; Carbo v.; Lyc.; Nux m.; Op;
Phos. ac., Phos., See.; Thuya

Thoughts vanish while reading, talking, writing —- .42¢c.;
Asari; Camph.; Caw ind ; Wach.; Lye.; Nux m.; Pier. ac.;
Staph

Unable to think -- Abies ni: #th.; Alum: ditac.; Are. n.3
Aur. mi: Bapt; Cale. c: Can. ind.; Con., Dig.; Gels.,
Glycerin; Kali p: Gye; Nat. c.. Nat. m; Nux m.; Nux
v7 Olreand = Petsol ; Phos. ac.; Phos.: Picr. ac., Rhus t;
Sil: Zine. m.

Weak from sexual abuse ---Agn.; Anac.:; Arg. n.;  Aur.;
Cinch.; Nat. m.; Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Staph.

MIND—Absence: 4con.; -dgn.; Anac.; Apis; Arag.;  Arn.;
Bar «3 Can and: Kah br.; Kreos 3 Lace; Tach ; Mere;
Nat. m.; Nux m; Phos. ac.; Poth.; Rhus. t.; Tellur.;
Zinc.

Absence of moral and will power — Abrot.; Acetan.; Anac.;
Coca. Cocaine: Kali br.; Morph.; Op.; Picr. ac.; Strych.
p.; Tar. h.

Cloudiness, confusion, depression, dullness — 4bies n.; Acon.;
“Esc.; Agar.: Al; Alfal.; Alum.: Anac;: Apis; Arvagal.;
Arg. n; Arn.; Bapt.; Bar. c; Bell; Can. ind; Cann.
st Carbon. s.; Cic.; Coec.; Coleh.; Euonym.; Ferr. m ;
Gels ; Glon.; Glycerin; Flelleb., Hyos.; Uyper.; Tndo!;
Jrid.; Kali bi.; Kah p.: Tecith.; Lye.; Mancin.; Nat. ¢.?
Nux m.: Nux v.; Of Phos. ac. Phos.; Pier. ac.; Piscidia;
Rhus t.; Selen.; Staph.; Stram; Sulphon.; Xerophyl.;
Zinc. m.; Zine v

Excitement, exhilaration — Acon.; Agar.; Bell; Can. ind.;
Canth.; Coca: Cocaine; Cef.; Foucal.: Hyos.; Lach.; Merc.
eve; Nux v.; Op.: Paul.; Physost.; Piscidia; Stran.; Thea:
Vora

MOOP — DISPOSITION — Anxiety felt during thunderstorm:
at. G3 tos.

Anriety felt in stomach — Ars.; Dig.; Ipec.; Kali c.; Puls.;

em a.

Anxious — Acon.: Eth.; Agn.: Amyl; Anac.; Arg. n.; Ars.‘

Asaf.; Aur., Pell.; Bism.; Bor.; Cale. c; Camph.; Can.
MIND 799

ind , Cham; Cim., Cinch.; Coft.; Con.; Dig.. Ign.; Kali
c.; Lach.; Lal t.. Nat. c.3 Nat. m.; Nux v, Op.; Phos.;
Plat., Psor; Puls. Rhus t.; See; Sep.; Sil, Staph;
Stiam.; Sul.; Tab.; Ver. a.

Apathetic, indifferent to everything — Agar.; Agn.; Apis;
Arg. n; Arn.: Bapt.; Bry.; Cim.: Cinch.; Con.; Gels.;
Glycerin; Helleb,, VWydroc. ac, Jon.; Indol; Laburn.,
Tvach.; Lil. t.; Merc., Nat. m.; Nux v.; Op.; Phos. ac.;
Phos.; Phyt.; Picr. ac.; Plat.; Puls.; Sec.; Sep.; Staph.,
Thuya; Ver. a.

Aversion to mental and physical work— Agar.; Alfal.;
Aloe; Anac.; Aragal.; Aur. mur.; Bapt; Bar. c.; Cale. c.;
Caps > Carb ac., Caust.; Cinch., Coca; Coun.;  Gels.;
Helleb ; Indol: Kal p.; Lecith ; Mag. p.; Nat. c.3; Nuccol.
s; Nit _ ac; Nux v.; Oxytr.; Phos. ac.; Phios.; Picr. ac.;
Puls ; Rhamnus cal.; Selen; Sep.; Sil.; Strych p.; Sul,
Tarac , Thymol; Zinc m.

Bashful, timid — 4bra, Aur; Bar. c+ Cale. c; Cale. sil;
Caust.; Coca: Con.; Giarh., Ign.; Kah p.; Til. t.; Man-
cm; Mel; Vhos.; Puls.; Sil; Staph.

Complaining, discontented, dissatisfied - Aloe; Ant. c.; Ais.;
Bism.; Bor.; Bry + Caps; Cham, Cora, Colehe; Indol,
Mas. p; Nit. ac, Nur 2, Plat. Psor , ’uls . Staph.; Sul.

ah,

Despairing, hopeless, discouraged easily, lack of confidence

acon: clan, Alum.: 4nac.. Ant co; Arg. n.; Arn,
4rs.; dur; Bar. c; Cale c.; Calc. stl; Con.; Gels.; Zgn.;
lod; Lil t: Nat m.; Nit. ac.; Nux v; Op.; Phos. ac,
Phos.; Pier. ac.; Psor.; Puls.; Ruta, Selen.; Sep.; Staph.;
Syph.; Thymol. Ver, a

Fault-finding, finicky, cautious — Ars., Cham ; Graph.; Hel-
on.: Moiph., Nux v., Plat; Sep; Staph.; Sul, Tar. h.
Ver. a

Fearlessness, daring — -{gar.; Bell.; Cocaine; Op.; Sil

Fretful, cross, irritable, peevish, quarrelsome, whining
—Abrot.; Acon.; #sc.; 7Eth.; Agar.; Alfal.; Anac.;
Ant. c., Ant. t.; Apis; Ars.; Aur.; Bry.; Bufo; Cale. br.;
Cale. ¢.3 Caps., Caust.; Cham.; Cia: Cinch; Colch
Col.; Croc.; Ferr.; Hep. i Iberis; IJqgn.; Indol; Ipec.; Kali
c.3 Kali p.; Kreos.; Lil. t.3 Lye; Nat. m., Nit, ac.; Nux
v.; Plat.; Puls; Radium; Rheum; Sars.; Sep.; Sil.; Staph.;
Sulphon.; Sul.; Syph.: Thuya; Thymol; Val.; Ver. a.;
Ver. v.; Zinc. m. |

Fretful day and night — Cham.; Ign.; Ipec.; Lac ¢.; Psor.;
Stram.

Fretful day only — Lyc .

Fretful night only - Ant. t.; Jal., Nux v.; Rheum

Fretful, so that child cannot bear to be touched, looked
at, or spoken to — dur. c.; Ant tj; Cham., Cina; Gels.;
Nux v.; Sanic.; Sl.; Thuya.

Fretful, so that child wants different things, but tue
lantly rejects them — Ant. t.; Bry.; Cham.; Cina; Ipec.;
Kreos.; Rheum; Staph.

Gay, frolicsome, hilarious — Anag.; Bell.; Can. ind.; Coff.;
Croc., Cyprip.; Eucal.; Formica, Hyos., Lach.; Plat.;
Spong.; Stram; Thea; Val.
800 MIND

Grieving, introspective, sighing — Ail ; Calc. p.; Crm; Dig.
Iberis; Ign., Lyc.; Mur, ac.; Nat m; Phos, ac,; Puls.
Haughty, arrogant, prideful — Bell.; Con.; Cupr. m.; Lach.

Lyc.; Pall.; Phos; Plat.; Staph.; Stram.; Ver. a.

Haughty, contempt of others —Ipec ; Plat.

Haughty, contempt of self-— .4g1.; 1ur., Lac ¢; Thuya.

Hypersensitive, cannot bear contradiction, vexed at trifle
— Acon.; Anac.; Ant. c.; Arn.; Ars.; Asaf.; Asar.; Aster.
Aur.; Bell.; Bry; Canth.; Caps.; Cham.; Cina; Cinch.
Coce ; Coff.; Colch.; Col.; Con.; Fert. m.; Hep.; Zgn.
Lach.; Lye.; Morph.; Nat. m; Nit ac.; Nux v; Pall.
Thos ; Plat.; Puls.; Sars.; Sep.; Sil; Staph.; Thuya

yr.

Hysterical (changeable, vacillatory) —.fcon., Alum.; Am
bra, Asaf., Camph monobr.; Cast.; Caust; Cun; Cob
Coce.; Coff.; Croc.; Gels.; Jgn.; Kali p.; Lil. t.; Mang. ac.
Mosch, Nat. m.; Nux m; Phos.; Plat.; Puls.; Sep.
Sumb.; Tar. h.; 'Thasp; Val., Zine. v.

Impatient, impulsive — Acon.; Anac.: Ant. ec; Arg. m.
Arg n.; Cham., Col.; Hep.; len.; Ipec.; Nat. m, Nux v.
Puls.; Rheum; Sep.; Staph.;,Sul.

Impudent, insulting, malicious, revengeful, spiteful — 4nac.
Ars; Bufo, cham, Cinch, Cupr.; Lae cs Nit. ae.
Nux v.; Staph; Tar. h.

Indecisive, irresolute — Arg. n.; Sur.; Bar. c.; Cale. sal.
Caust.; Graph.: Ign.; Nux m.; Nux v.; Puls.

Indolent, listless, lethargic, ambitionless — Alet.; Aloe
Ana: elpis; Aur. m.; Bapt.; Bar. ¢.; Berb. aq: Bry
Calc. ¢.; Caps., Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Cycl.; Euphras.
Ferr.; Gels.; Helon.; Indol; Kah Pi Lecith.; Lil. t.
Merce.; Nat. m; Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Picr. ac.; Puls.
Ruta; Sarcol. ac.; Sep.; Stann ; Sul.; Thymol; Zinc

Jealous — Apis; Hyos.; Ign.; Lach.; Nux v.

Melancholic, despondent, depressed, low-spirited, gloomy
apprehensive, “blues” -- Abies n.; .dcon., Asc.; Agn.
Alfal.; Alum; Am c.: Am. m.; Anac.; Ant c.; Apis; Arg
m.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Ars, m.; Aur.; Bry.; But. ac.; Cact.
Cale. ¢.; Caust.; Cim., Cinch.; Cocce.; Con.; Cupr. m.
Cyel., Dig.; Euonym.: Euphras.; Graph.; Uelleb.; Helon.
Hydr , Yherss; Ign; Lndage; Indol; lod.; Kali p.; Lac e.
Lach.; Li. 4, Lyc., Mere; Myg.; Myr.; Naja; Nat. c.
Nat, m,; Nit. ac; Nux.m ; Nus uv; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Plat.
Plumb.: Pod.; Psor.; Fuls.; Radium; Rhus t.; Sarcol. ac.
Sars: Senec.; Sep.; Sil; Spig.; Stann.; Staph.; Still.
Sul; Tab.; Thuya; Tub., Ver. a.; Zine. m.; Zine. p.

Mild, gentle, yielding — Aium ; Jgn., Murex; Phos. ac.; /uls
Sep.; Sil.

Misanthropic, miserly, seifish—Ais., Lyc.; Pall.; Plat.; Sep
MIND 801

Phos.; Psor.; Puls.: Sep., S1l.; Staph.; Stram , Sumb.;
Tar. h.; Thea; Val.; Zine. m., Zinc. ps ‘Zine. v.

Obscene, amative — Canth.; Hyos.; Lil. t.; Murex; Phos.;
Puls.; Staph.; Stram.; Ver. a.

Restless (mentally and. physically )— Absinth.; Acon.; Agar.;
Ambra; Arag.; ; Ars.; Aur. m.; Bell.; Bism., Camph.; Can.
ind; Canth. ; Caust.; Cenchris; Cham. ; ; Cim:; Coff. ;'Hyos.; i
Ign.; TIod.; Kali br: 3; Lach.; Laur.; Lil. t.; Med.; ‘Morph.
Mur. ac.; Myg., Nat. c.; ‘Nat. m.; Nux v.; Op.; Phos. :
Phyt.; i Plat. ; Pere : Radium; Rhus t.; Ruta; Sil; Scram.;
Tar. h.; Ver. a.; Ver. v.; Zine. m.; Zine. v.

Sad, Continental, sighing —Agn; Am. m.; Ant. ¢.; Aur;
Cact.; Cale. p.; Carbo an.; Cim.; Coce.; Con.; Cycl.
Dig.; Graph.; Uberis; Ign.; Indigo; Kah bs Lach.; Lil.
t.; Mur. ac.; Naja; "Nat. ¢.; Nat. ‘m; Nit. ac; Nux ves
Phos. ac.; Phos.; Plat.; Puls. Rhus t.; Sec; Selen.;
Sep.; Stann.; Staph.; Sul; Thuya; Zinc. m.

Sed, we ing from music —- ‘Acon ; 3; dmbia; Graph.; Nat. c.;

ar. h.; Thuya.

Stoveriy, filthy “am c.3; Caps.; Mere.; Psor.; Sul; Ver. va.

Stubborn, obstinate, self-willed— Agar.; Ant. c; Bry.;
Caps ; Cham., Cinch ; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Sil; Staph.

Stupid -. Fee. gl; Anac.; Apis, Arn.; Rapt.; Bell.; Bry.;
Coce.; Gels.; Helleb.; Hyos.; Indcl; Lach.; Nus m. s Op.;
Phos. ar., Phos ; Rhus t.; Sec.; Stiam.; Ver. a.

Suicidal -- Alum.; Anac.; .4nt. c.; .4r58.; Aur.; Cinch.; Fuligo;
Ign.; Tod: Kali_br.; Naja, Nat. s.; Nit. ac; Nus v.;
Puls; Rhus t.; Sec.; Sep.; Sil; Ustil; Ver. a.

Suspicious, mistrustful —— Anac. ; Anhal.; Caust.; Cun. ; Hyos. ;
ach.; Mere.; Nux v.; Puls.; Staph.; Ver. a; ver. v.

Sympathetic —-Caust.; Cocc.; Puls.

Taciturn, disinclined ‘to be disturbed, or answer questions —
Agar.; Ant. c.; Ant, t.; Arn; Bell.; Bei Cact.; Carbo an.;
C am. ; Col., ’Gels.5 Helleb.; Ten. ur. ac.; Naja Nat.
m.; Nux v.; Oxytr.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Sars.; Sil.;

Taciturn, morose, sulky, sullen, ‘unsociable — Ant, . Ant.
ts Arn.; Brv, Cham.; Cim.; Cinch.; Col; Con: Cupr ;
Ign ; Lyc.; Nat. m.; Nux v7, Plat.; Puls.; 3 Sin; Sul.; Ver.
a; Ver v.

Tearful, weeping - - 4m. m.; Apis, Ars.; pars 3 Cact.; Cale,
ec; Caust ; Crm. Coee., Croc.; Cyel., Dig.; Graph. ; Ign.;
Lach.; Lil. t.; Lye.; Mag. m3; Nat. m.; Nit. ac; Nux m. 3
Plat. ; *Puls.; 3 Rhus t; Sep.; Sil; Stann.; Sul.

NIGHT-TERRORS: — Acon.; Aur. br.; Cals. c.; Cham; Cic.;
Cina, Chloral.; Cyprip.; 3; Kah br., Kali p.; Scutel.; Solan.
n.; Stram.; Tub; Zinc. m.
PROPENSITY — To be abusive, curse, swear -— Anac.; Bell.;
Ganth.s Lac c.; Vil t.3 Nit ac, Pall; Stram.; Tub.;
er. a.

To be aimlessly busy — .\bsinth.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Canth.;
Lil. t.; Sul; Tar. h.

To be carried — nt. t.; Ars.; Benz. ac.; Cham.; Cina.; Ipec.

To be cruel, violent, inhuman — Abrot.; Absinth. ; Anac.;
Bell.; Bry.: Canth.; Croc.; Nit. ac.; Nux t; Plat.; ; Staph.;
Stram.; ar. h.; Ver. a.
802 MIND

To be destructive, bite, strike, etc. — Bell.; Bufo; Canth.;
Cupr. m.; Hyos., Lil. t.; Sec.; Stram.; Tar. h.; Ver. a.

To be magnetized -— Calc. c.; Phos.; Sil.

To be obscene — Anac.; Canth.; Hyos.; Lach.; Lil. t.; Phos.;
Plat.; Stram.; Ver. a.

To commit suicide— Alum.; Ant. c.; Ars.; Aur.; Caps;
Cim.; Jgn.; Kali_br.; Merc.; Naja; Nat. s.; Nuwx v.; Psor.;
Puls.; Rhus t.; Thasp.; Ustil.; Ver. a.

To dance — <igar., Bell.; Cic.; Croc.; Hyos.; Sticta; Stram.;

‘ar. h.

To do absurd things — Bell.; Can. ind.; Cic.; Hyos.; Lach;
Stiram.; ‘Tar. h.
To eat greedily — Lyc.; Zinc. m.
To handle organs --- Bufo; Canth.; Hyos.; Ustil.; Zine.
To hurry — Acon.; Alum.; Apis; drg. n., dur.; Coff.; Ign.;
Li. t.; Nat. m.; Sul. ac.; Thuya; Zine v.
To hurry others — Arg. n.; Can. ind.; Nux m.
To kill beloved ones — Ars.; Cinch.; Merc.; Nux v.; Plat.
To laugh immoderately at trifles— Anac.; Cen. wd.; Croc.;
Hyos.; Ign.; Mosch.; Nux m.; Plat.; Stram.; Sirych. p.;
Tar. h.; Zinc. oxy.
To lie — Morph., Op.; Ver. a.
To mutilate body -- Agar.; Ars.; Bell.; Hyos.; Stram.
To perform great things -—- Cocaine.
To pray — Aur. m.; Puls.; Stram.; Ver. a.
To repeat everything -- Zinc. m.
To scold— Con.; Dule.; Mosch.; Nux v.; Pall; Petrol;
er. a.
To sing — Agar.; Bell.; Can. ind.; Cic.; Croc.; Hyos.; Spong.;
Stram.; Tar. h.; Ver. a.
To stretch and yawn incessantly — Amy].
To talk in rhymes, repeat verses, prophecy — Agar.; Ant.
c.; Lach.; Stram.
To tear things —- Agar.; Bell.; Cimea, Cupr. mj; Stam;
Tar. h.; Ver. a.
To tease, laugh at reproofs -- Graph.
To theorize or meditate — Can. end.; Coce ; Coff.; Sul
To touch different things —~ Bell ; Sul.; Thuya.
To wander from home —- A:ag.; Sry., Elat.; Lach.; Ver. a.
To work — th.; Aur.; Cereus; Cocaine; Coff.; Eucal.;
Uelon.; Lacertus; Padic.; Piscidia. '
SCREAMS — Shrill, sudden, piercing -~ Apis, Bell.; Bor.; Bry.;
Cale. c.; Cham.; Cic.; Cina: Cinch.; Cyprip.; Gels.; felled,
lodof.; Kali br.; Stram.; Tub.; Ver. a; Zinc. m,
SENSES -— Dulled — Ail.;. dnac.; Bapt.; Caps.; Dig.: Gels;
Helleb,; Phos. ar; Rhus t
Hyperacute --.fcon ;  Asaf.; Asar.; Atrop.; Bell.;  Bor.;
Cham  Cineh ; Coff., Colch., Ign; Lyssin; Moiph: Mav
wm, Op; Phos ; Si,; Stryck.; Sul; Tare hey Val; Zine m.
SPEECH — Hurried -—- Anac.; Aur.; Bell., Bry.; Cocc,j Hep.;
Hyos.; Lil t.; Mere.; Ver. a.
Lest or paralysis (aphasia) — Bar. ac.; Bar. c.; Bothrops;
Caust.; Cham; Chenop.; Cold; Con.; Glon.; Keli br.;
MIND 803

Lach.: Lve.; Mez.; Phos.; Plumb. m.; Stram.; Sulphon.
See Nervous System.

Nasal— Rar. m.: Bell.: Lach.; Phos. ac.

Slow. difficult enunciation, inarticulate, stammering —sc.
al.; Agar.; Anac.; Anhal., Atrop.; Bar. c.; Bell.; Bothrops,
Gels ; Bov., Bufo; Can, ind, Can. s.; Canst.; Cice.y Cupr.
m.; Gels.; Hyos.; Ign., Kali br.; Kali cy; Lach.; Laur.;
Merce.; Myg.; Nux m.; Oleand.; Op.; Phos, Stram.; Sul-
phon.; Thuya; Vip.

SOMNAMBULISM --~ Acon.; Art. 7.; Con. ind.; Cur.; Ign.;
Kah br ; Kalt p.; Phos ; Sil ; Zine, m.

STARTLES — Easily frightened — Acon.; Agar.; Apis; Asar,
Beli.; Bor , Calad.; Cale. ¢ ; Carbo v_; Cham.; Cim.; Cyp-
up.; Ign.; Kal: br.; Kalic.; Kah p.; Nat. c; Nur v.; Op;
Phos ; Samb.; Scutel.; Sep.; Stl; Stram.; Sul; Tar. h.;
Ther.; Zinc. m.

TAEDIUM VITAE (disgust of life)— Aut. c.; Ars; Aur;
Cinch.; Hydr.; Lac c.: Lac d;_ Kali br.; Nat. s.: Nit ac.;
Phos.; Plat.; Pod.; Rhus t.; Sul; Tab; Uhuya, Ver. a.
HEAD

BRAIN — — Abscess —Arn.; Bell.; Crot.; Iod.; Lach.; Op.;
ipera
Annes -Alum.; Ars.; Cale. p.; Camph.; Cinch.; Ferr. m.;
Ferr, p; Kah ce; Kah p.; Nux v.; hos.; ; Sec.; Tab.; Ver.
ay Zinc, m
Atrophy = dur.; Bar c., Fluor. ac.; Iod.: Phos.; Plumb. m.;

Zinc, m.
Concussion — Acon., Arti : Belles Cic.; Ham.; Hyper ; Kali
Nat. s.; Op.; ;

Congestion (rush of bivod "to head) — Absinth.; Acon.; Act.
spic.; Agar; Ambra; Amyl; Arn.; Aster.; Aur. Bell.;
Bry,, Cact.; Carbo v; Cham; Chin, s.; Cinnab. ; 3 Cinch;
Coff.; Croc.; Cupr, ac.; Cupr. m; Ferr. p.; Ferr. Tchr wee ;
Gels.; Glon ; Hyos.; Ign ; Tod ; ‘Lach.; ‘ye; ; eli; Nux
v.; Op.; Sang.; Sep.; Sil.; Solan. lyc.; Stram.; ae Ver,
v,

Congestion, passive — sc.; Cinch; Dig; Ferr. pxroph.;
Gels.; Helleb.; Op.; Phos.

Inflammation (meningitis) — Cerebral (acute and chronic)
—Acon; Ath; Apis; Arn.; Ars; Bapt; Bell; Bry;
Cale. br.; Cale. p.; Campk.; Carb. ac.; Chin. s.; ; ‘Chrom.
oxy.; Cie, Cim; Cinch : Crot ; Cupr. ac., Cupr. mi: Digi;
Gels: Glon.; Helleb, Uydroe. ace; Uypri s lod; Todof.:
Kal iod.; Ikreos.; Tach, Merc. c; erc. d.; Mosch.;
Op.; Ox. ac.; Physost.; Plumb mj; Phos.; Rhus t; Sil,
Solan. n; Sul., Stram.; Tub.; Ver. v.; Vipera; Zine m.
See Hydrocephalts.

Inflammation, basilar —- Cupr. cy.; Dig.; Helleb.; Iod.; Sec.;
Tub.; Ver. v.

Inflammation, cerebro-spinal —-.fgar ; Ail; Apis; Arg. n.;
Atrop.; ; Bell.; Bry.; Cic.; Cum.; Coce.; Crot.; Cypr. ac.,
Echin.; Gels.; Glon; Helleb.; Hyos.; Ipec.; Kali iod.;
Laburn.; Op.; Oreodaph : Physost.; Sil.; Stram.; Sul.;
Ver. v.; Zinc. cy.; Zine m.

Inflammation, traumatic - -Acon.; Arn ; Bell.; Hyper.; Nat.
s., Sil.

Inflammation, tubercular — . Ips; Bac.; Bell; Bry.; Cale.

.t Cule, p.; Coce.; Cupr. cv; ‘Dig.; Glon ; ; Helleb.: Tyos.;
Tod.; lodof.s Kah iod ; Op.; "St: ram.; Sul; ‘ub.; Ver. w.;
Zine. m.; Zine. oxy

Paralysis — Alumen; Con; Cupr. m.; Gels.; Lye: Ov.;
Flumb. ; 3 Sec.; Zinc. m. See Apoplexy (Circulatory Sys-
tem

Sclerosis (softening, degeneration) — Agar; ; Arg. nj Aur;
Bar a Cau. ind; Con.; Kali br.; Kali iod.; Kali p.;
Lach, Lye.; Nux m; Nux v.; Phos.; Pier. ac.; Plumb.
m.; Salam.; Vanad., Zinc m. See Arteriosclerosis (Cir-
eulatory System).

bar cramer ete pines 2 Arn.; Bar. c.; Bell.; Cale. ¢.; Con;
Glon.; Graph. ydr.; ; Kalki iod.; Piumb. m.; Sep.

CEREBELLAR DISEASE — Helod.; "Sulphon.
HEAD

BRAIN — — Abscess —Arn.; Bell.; Crot.; Iod.; Lach.; Op.;
ipera
Annes -Alum.; Ars.; Cale. p.; Camph.; Cinch.; Ferr. m.;
Ferr, p; Kah ce; Kah p.; Nux v.; hos.; ; Sec.; Tab.; Ver.
ay Zinc, m
Atrophy = dur.; Bar c., Fluor. ac.; Iod.: Phos.; Plumb. m.;

Zinc, m.
Concussion — Acon., Arti : Belles Cic.; Ham.; Hyper ; Kali
Nat. s.; Op.; ;

Congestion (rush of bivod "to head) — Absinth.; Acon.; Act.
spic.; Agar; Ambra; Amyl; Arn.; Aster.; Aur. Bell.;
Bry,, Cact.; Carbo v; Cham; Chin, s.; Cinnab. ; 3 Cinch;
Coff.; Croc.; Cupr, ac.; Cupr. m; Ferr. p.; Ferr. Tchr wee ;
Gels.; Glon ; Hyos.; Ign ; Tod ; ‘Lach.; ‘ye; ; eli; Nux
v.; Op.; Sang.; Sep.; Sil.; Solan. lyc.; Stram.; ae Ver,
v,

Congestion, passive — sc.; Cinch; Dig; Ferr. pxroph.;
Gels.; Helleb.; Op.; Phos.

Inflammation (meningitis) — Cerebral (acute and chronic)
—Acon; Ath; Apis; Arn.; Ars; Bapt; Bell; Bry;
Cale. br.; Cale. p.; Campk.; Carb. ac.; Chin. s.; ; ‘Chrom.
oxy.; Cie, Cim; Cinch : Crot ; Cupr. ac., Cupr. mi: Digi;
Gels: Glon.; Helleb, Uydroe. ace; Uypri s lod; Todof.:
Kal iod.; Ikreos.; Tach, Merc. c; erc. d.; Mosch.;
Op.; Ox. ac.; Physost.; Plumb mj; Phos.; Rhus t; Sil,
Solan. n; Sul., Stram.; Tub.; Ver. v.; Vipera; Zine m.
See Hydrocephalts.

Inflammation, basilar —- Cupr. cy.; Dig.; Helleb.; Iod.; Sec.;
Tub.; Ver. v.

Inflammation, cerebro-spinal —-.fgar ; Ail; Apis; Arg. n.;
Atrop.; ; Bell.; Bry.; Cic.; Cum.; Coce.; Crot.; Cypr. ac.,
Echin.; Gels.; Glon; Helleb.; Hyos.; Ipec.; Kali iod.;
Laburn.; Op.; Oreodaph : Physost.; Sil.; Stram.; Sul.;
Ver. v.; Zinc. cy.; Zine m.

Inflammation, traumatic - -Acon.; Arn ; Bell.; Hyper.; Nat.
s., Sil.

Inflammation, tubercular — . Ips; Bac.; Bell; Bry.; Cale.

.t Cule, p.; Coce.; Cupr. cv; ‘Dig.; Glon ; ; Helleb.: Tyos.;
Tod.; lodof.s Kah iod ; Op.; "St: ram.; Sul; ‘ub.; Ver. w.;
Zine. m.; Zine. oxy

Paralysis — Alumen; Con; Cupr. m.; Gels.; Lye: Ov.;
Flumb. ; 3 Sec.; Zinc. m. See Apoplexy (Circulatory Sys-
tem

Sclerosis (softening, degeneration) — Agar; ; Arg. nj Aur;
Bar a Cau. ind; Con.; Kali br.; Kali iod.; Kali p.;
Lach, Lye.; Nux m; Nux v.; Phos.; Pier. ac.; Plumb.
m.; Salam.; Vanad., Zinc m. See Arteriosclerosis (Cir-
eulatory System).

bar cramer ete pines 2 Arn.; Bar. c.; Bell.; Cale. ¢.; Con;
Glon.; Graph. ydr.; ; Kalki iod.; Piumb. m.; Sep.

CEREBELLAR DISEASE — Helod.; "Sulphon.
HEAD 805

FONTANELLES — Tar closure — Apis; Apoc.; ale. ¢.;
Cale. p.; Merc.; 5. Sil; Sul; Vine. m Cale
HEADACHE (cephalalgia) — Cause: Altitudes high: Coca.

Bathing — Ant. c.

Beer — Rhus t.

Bright's disease — .\in. v.; Zinc. picr.

Candy, sweets — Ant. c.

Catarrh — ( cpa; Hydi.; Merc.; Puls.; Strcta.

Catarrh suppressed -- Bell ; Kah buh.; Lach.

Coffee — Aium; Ign.; Nur v, Paul.

Constipation -- -dloc, Alum.; Bry.; Collins.; Hydr.; Nit ac.;

Nux v; Op.; Ratanh.
Dancing ~— Arg n.

Diarrhoea alternating — .Jloe,‘VPud.
Effete matter in system — Asclep. s.
Emotional disturbances —- Acetan.; Arg. n.; Cham.; Cim;

Coff.; Epiph.; Gels.; Ign.; Pier. ac, Sil.

Eruptions suppressed— Ant. c.; Psor.; Sul.

Eye-strain -- Acetan.; Cim.; Epiph.; Gels., Nut. m.; Onosm.;
Phos. ac.; Ruta.

Fasting —- Ars.; Cact.; Lach.; Lyc.; Sil.

Gastro-intestinal derangements — Ant, c.; Bry.; Carbo v.;
Cinch.; Ipec.; Jos, Nux m., Nux v, Puls.; Rham, ¢.;
Robin.

Hair-cut ~- Bell.; Bry

Hat, pressure — Calc. p.; Carbo v.; Hep.; Nat. mj; Nit. ac

Hemorrhage, excesses or vital losses - Carbo v.; Céinch.;
err ; kerr. p 1oph.; Phos. ac.; Sil.

Hemorrhoids —~- Collins.; Nux v.

Ice-water --- Dig.

Influenza—— Camph.; Lob. purp.

froning--- Bry.; Sep.

Liver derangements -~ Lept.; Nux v.; Ptelea.

Lumbago, alternating with it — Aloc. .

Malaria —- Ars., Caps.; Ced.; Chin. s.; Cinch; Cupr  ac.;
Eup. perf.; Gels.; Nat. m. . .

Mengal exertion or nervous exhaustion — Acctan:; Agar.;
mac.; Arg. n.; Aur. br.; Chionanth.; Cim.; Coff.; Epiph.;
Gels.; Ign.; Kali p.; Nat. c., Niccol.; Nux v.; Phaseol.;
Phos. ac.; Picr. ac.; Sabad.; Scutel.; Sil.; Zinc. m.

Mercury — Still.

Narcotics, abuse —- Acct. ac.

Over-lifting — Calc. c.

Perspiration, suppressed — Asclep. 5; Bry.

Riding against wind — Calc. iod.; Kali c.

Riding in cars — Cocc.; Graph.; Med.; Nit. oc.

Sexual excitement, weakness — Cinch.; Nux v.; Onosm.;

si Phos. ac.; Stl. B .
eep, damp room — Bry

Sleep, loss acim. Cove. iy Nuw v.

Spina! sease, chorea — Agar.

Spirituous liquors — Agar.; Ant. c.; Nux v.; Paul.; Rhod.;
Ruta; Zinc. m.

Sunlight or heat — Bell.; Cact.; Ferr, p.; Gels.; Glon.; Kal.;
Lach,; Nat. c.; Nux v.; Sang.; Stram,

Syphilis — Ars.; Aur. ars.; Aur.; Sars.; Still; Syph.

‘ea — Nux v.; Paul; Selen.; Thuya.
806 HEAD

Tobacco —- Ant, c ; Calad.; Carb ac; Gels.; Ign ; Nux v.

Traumatism -- Aru., Lyper.; Nat. ».

Uraemia-- Arn; Bapt; Can. ind.; Glon.; Hyper.; S@ag.

Uterine disease, reflex --.Aloc; Bell, Cim.; Gels; dgn.;
Puls; Sep., Zine. p.

Vaccination - ‘Thuya

Weather changes — (alc. p.; Phyt.

TYPE —Anaemic: Ars; Cale. p.; Crnch.; Cycl.; Ferr. p.; Ferr.
1.35 Kal, Nat. m.; Phos. ac.; Zine. m. .
Catarrhal \is., Bell: Bry.; Camph; Cepa; Eup. perf.;
Kuphras.; Gels.; Kali bich.; Lyc.; Menthol; Mere.; Nux

v.i Puls, Sabad ; Sang; Sicta; Sul.

Chronic - iy. n., Chin’ s.; Coce: Lach ; Nat. m.; Phos.;
Plumb ; Psor.; Sep y Si, Tub.; Zine. im,

Chronic, old people = an. c., Cale. p.; lod.; Phos

Chronic, school girls -—Cuk. p., ali p.; Nat. m; Phos. ac.:
Pur ac, Psor; Tub., Zine m.

Chronic, sedentary persons — .Anac.; ¢iig. n.; Bry.; Nux v.

Climacteric = A\imyl; Cact.; Cim., Cioc.; Cyel.; Glon., Tach.;
Sang.; Sul.

Congestive —-.Jeun.; Amy]; Arg n.; Bell., Bry., Cact., Chin.
3 Ferr. p.; Gels., Glon , Glycerin; Jonosia; Lach.; del ;
Nux v.; Op.; Phascol.; Sang , Sil; Solan. n.: Sul; Usnea:

er tu,

Congestive, passive — Clin. s., Ferr. p.; Ferr. pyroph.; Gels.;3

ps

Gastric, bilious -- Am picr ; .Anac.; 4rg. n.; Bapt.; Brv;
Cham.; Chel; Chionanth.; Cyel.; Kup. perf.; Ipee ; Iris,
lob. infl., Merc. t.3 Naor, Ped. Pads.. Robin.: Sanu
Stryen.; Tarax,

Hysterical (clavus) — Agar.; Aquil.; Cof.; Euonym.; Hep.;
Jan.; Kali c.; Mag. m.; Nux v; Plat; Puls.; Thuya.

Menstrual --- Tih.; Avena; Bell.; Cact ; Can. ind.; Can. 5s;
Chionanth.; Cim.; Cinch; Coce.; Croe : Cyet; Ferr om;
Glon., Glycerin; Kah op.s Tach; Lil. t.3 Nat. m; Plat.
mur.; Puls.; Sang.; Sep.; Uswi.; Vib op.; Xanth,

Migrajne, megrim, nervous - An c.;_Anac: Anhal.; Arg.
a; Aspar.; Avena; Bell.; Bry.; Caff. citr; Cale. ac.:
Cale. ¢; Can ind.; Carb. ac; Ced.; Chionanth.; Cim.;
Cocc.; Coff ; Crot. casc.; Cycl.; Epiph.; Gels.; Guar; Ign.;
Jvis, Kah bich.: Kel c.; Lae d.; Lach.; Meli.; Menisp.;
Nat. m.; Niccol.; Nux v.; Onosm.; Paul.; Plat. mur.;
Puls.; Sang., Sapomm; Scwtei: Sep, Sil; Spig.; Stann.;
FR} Thea; Ther ; Verbase.; Nanth.; Zine. sul; Zine. v.;
linia,

Neuralgic --.dconitine; Aise.; Arg. n.3 Ars.; Bell; Bism.;
Ced ; Chin. s.; Cim.; Col. Derris; Geis.; Mag. p; Meh.;
Menthol; Oreodaph.; Pall; Phos; Spa; Zine v.

Rheumatic, gouty — Act. spic.; Bell.; Bry.; Cale. c; Colch.;
Col.; Derris, Guaiac + Uep., Ipec.; Kali s.; Lye; Nux v.;
Phyt.; Rhus t.; Sep.; Sil} Sul.

Uraemic — Arn.; Glon.; Hyper.; Sang. ;

Utere-ovarian — Rell., Cim.; Gels.; Helon.; Ign. 'Jonosia;
Puls.; Sep.; Zine.

LOCATION — Frontal: Acon.; Azse.; Alfal.;  Agar.; Arl.;
Aloe; Am. ¢.3 Anac.; Antipyr.; Arg. on; Ars.; Aur.; Bell.;
Bry,! Cale. c.; Carb. ac.; Ced.; Cepa; Chin. s.; Chionanth,;
Eup. perf.; Euphras.; Gels.; Glon.; Hydr.; Ign.; Indol;
HEAD 807

Tnas; Aah bich.; Lept., Meh; Menisp.; Nat. m; Nex v ;
Phos ; Pier. ac.; Prun. sp.; Ptel.; Puls; Robin.; Rhus t.;
Seutel., Sil; Stellar.: Sticta, rela od,

Frontal, extending to eyes, root of nose, face, etc. —
Acon.; Agar., Aloc, Ars. m; Bad.; Bry.; Caps; Ced.;
Cepa; Cereus; Cim.; Hep; Ign.; Kal iod.; Lach.; Men-
thol; Onosm ; Plat, Prun. sp; Ptel., Spig.; Sticta.

Frontal, extending to occiput, nape of neck and spine
— Bry ; Euonym ; Gels.; Lac d.; Menisp.; Nux v.; Orco-
*daph.; Prun. sp.: Sep; Tub

Occipital — Eth ; Alfal.; Anac; Avena; Bry.; Camph.; Can.
ind.; Carbo v.; Cim.; Cocc.; Euonym.; Eup. perf.; Ferr.
in; Gels.; Gins.; Jugl. ¢.; Tac c; Lecith; Nuiccol. s.;
Nuw vs Onosm.; Oreodaph ; Petrol.; Phos. ac; Picr. ac ,
Plat. mur.; Radrum; Rhus gl., Sang.; Sep.; Sil; Sul;
Xanth.; Zine m.

Occipital extending to eyes and forehead --.Arundo; Bell.;
Carbo v.; Cim; Gels.; Glycerim; Idol; Lae c.; Onosm.;
Pier. ac.; Sang; Sars., Sil, Spice.

Semilateral (hemicrania) -- Arg n.; .frs.; | Bell.; Bry.;
Ced.; Cham.; Coff., Cols Cycl.; Gins; Glon.s Ign.;
Jonosia; Kah bich : Lach; Ol an; Onosm : Phos.; Prun
sp.; Puls.; Sang.; Sep.; Sil.; Sprig ; Stann., Thuya.

Semilateral, left side - Sux v3 Cuosm., Saponin; Spig.

Semilateral, right side - Ccd.; Chel; Tins; ali bich , Ra-
dium, Sang.; Sil.

Spinal and cervical -- Bell; Cim; Coce, Dule.; Gels.;
Gossyp., Helleb, Nat om., Niccol 53 Oredaph, Phas.
ac.; Picr. ac.; Seutel , Sil, Ver. v.

Supraorbital--Acon ; .\conit.; Aloe; 4rs. Carb. ac.; Ced ;
Cereus: Chin. s ; Cam: Cinnab.: Col; Glon , Ign.; Indol;
Tris; Walt bech., Lye 3 Mele; Menthol; Ney vy Phell.;
Puls.; Viola od.

Supraorbital, left — \ct. spic ; Arg. n.; Astrag.; Bry.; Carbo
v.; Ced.: Coce.; Exvonym; Menthol; Nux v.; Oreodaph.;
Sapon.; Selen.; Senec.; Sfig.; Tellur.; Xanth. ; .

Supraorbital, right — Arundo; Bell ; Bism ; Chel.; Iris; Kali
bich.; Meli.; Plat.; Sang.; Sil.

Sutures, along — Calc. p.

Temples — Acon.; Anac; Arn.; Bell; Bry.; Caps.; Ced.;
Carb, ac.; Chin. s.; Cinch; Epiph,; Gels.; Glon.; Ign.;
Naja; Onosm.; Oreodaph.; Phcll.; Phos ac: Plat; Rhus
t.; Sang.; Senec; Sep.; Spig.; Stann.; Sul. ac.; Usnea,

Temples, ear to ear — Antipyr.; Calc. ars.; Menthol; Pall.;
Syph.

Vertex (crown of head)-~ Alumen; Anac.; Act. spic.; Ars.;
Cact.; Cale. p.; Cim.; Cinch,; Gels.; Glon.; Hyper.; Lach.,
Menyanth.; Naja; Nux v.; Pall; Phell; Phos. ac.;
Radium; Sep.; Sul; Ver. a ‘

CHARACTER OF PAIN — Aching, dull: Acon.; _4sc.;_ Al-
fal.; Aloe; Ant. c.; Arg. n; Ars; Azar.; Bapt.; Bell.;
But. ac.; Caps.; Carb. ac.; Carho_v.; Caid. m.; Cepa,
Cim.; Cinch.; Cocc.; Euonym.; Gels.; Helleb.; Hydr.;
Ichthy.; Jgn.; Indol; Iris; Kali bich.; Lept.; Lil. t:
Menthol; yr.; Naja; Nat. ars.; Nux v.; Nyctanth ;
Onosm.; Oreodaph.; Phell.; Picr. ac.; Plumb. m.; Scutel.;
Sil, Stann ; Stellar
808 HEAD

Boring, digging — Arg. n.; Asaf.; Aur.; Bell,; Clem; Col.;
Hep.; Nat. s.; Sep.; Stram.

Bruised, battered, sore — Arn.; Bapt.; Bellis; Cinch.; Coff.
Euonym.; Eup. peri Gel.; Guarea; Ign.; Tpec.4 Lyc.
Menthol; Nux 7; Phell.; Phos. ac.; Rhus t.; Sil.; ‘Tab.

Burning, heat — Acon.; Alumen; Apis; Arn.; Ars.; Aster.,
Bell.; Cale. Pi Glon.; Helon.; Lach., Lil. t.; Merc.; Ox.
ac.; Phell ; Phos.; Sil.; Tongo; Ver. v.; Viola od,

Bursting, splitting —- 4con.; Bell.; Bry , Cact.; Caps.; Cinch.
Daphne; Glon.; Mag. m.; Meli.; Nat. m., Nux m.; Nux v.
Oleand.; Puls.; Solan. lyc.; Strych ; Usnea; Ver. a,

Constrictive, band-like, squeezing — Acon.; Anac.; Ant. t.
Antipyr.; Cact., Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Card. m.; Coca
Cocc; Eup _perf.; Gels.; Glon.;, Guano; Jod.; Lept.
Merc _per.; erc., Nit. ac.; Osm.; Plat.; Spig.; Stan.
Sul.; Tar. bh; Tub.

Distensive, full — dcon.; Amyl; Arg. n.; Bapt.; Bell.; Bov.
Bry.: Cact.; Caps.; Chin, ars; Cim; Cinch; Gels.; Glon.
Glycerin; Kah bich.; Menthol; Nux v.; Strych.; Sui.

Drawing — PBism.; Bry.; Caps.; Carbo v.; Caul.; Caust.

m.; Kali c.; Nux v.
Excruciating, violent -— Agar.; Amyl; Anac.; Arg. n.; Aur.
ell,, Bry.;  Cum., Ctnch., Glon.; Kah 10d.; | Medi:
Qreodaph. ; Plat. mur.; Sang., Scutel.; Sil.; Spig.; Strych.
inc. Vv.

Heaviness — Accn.; Aloe; Arg. n.; Bapt Bar. m.; Bell.
Bry.; Cact.; Cale. c.; Carbo v.; Coce., Gels.; Glon
Glycerin; Hydr.: Iyper.; Jan.; Iris; Lach; Lil. t.; Mel.
Menvanth; Meic.; Nux v., Onosm.; Op., Oreodaph.
Petrol.; Phell., Phos ac.; Phos.; Pier. ac.; Puls.; Rhu
t.3 Sep.; Sul.

Periodical, intermittent -- Acon.; Am. picr.; Arg. n.3 Ars.;
Bell., Cact.; Ced., Cinch., Eup. pert.; Gels.; Ign; Kali
cy.; Mag. m.; Niccol.; Niccol. s.; Sang.; Sep.; Spig.;
Tab. Tela ar.; Zinc. v.

Periodical, intermittent, alternate days — Axhal.; Cinch.

Periodical, intermittent, every third day — seventh day —
Eup. perf.

Periodical, intermittent, every seventh day — Calc, ars.; Sa-
bad ; Sang.; Sil.; Sul. .

Periodical, intermittent, every eighth day — Iris.

Periodical, intermittent, every week or two — Sul.

Periodical, intermittent, every two-three weeks — Ferr. m.

Periodical, intermittent, every six weeks — Mag. in.

Periodical, intermittent, lasting several days — Tab.

Periodical, with increase and decrease of sun— Glon.; Kal.;
Nat. c.; Nat. m.; Sang.; Sp1g.; Tab.

Piercing, as from nail —Agor.;  Ananth.; Aquil.;  Coff.;
Hep., Ign.; Mag. pol. am., Nux v.; Paraf.; Ruta; Sil;
Thuaya; Zine v.

Pressing — Acon.; -4]ne; Anac.; Bell.; Bry ; Cact.; Coaps.;
Carb. ac; Cham.; Chel.; Chionanth.; Cim.; Epiph.; Eup.
fr .; Ferr.; Glon.; Hydroc. ac.; Jgn.; Kali c.; Lach.;
Meli.: Menyanth, Nux v., Onosm.; Op.; Oreodaph.; Phos.
oc.; Plat.; Pod.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Sep.; Stann.; Sticta; Sul.;
Sul. ac.; Thasp.: Ver. a.; Zinc. m.
HEAD 809

Pressing, as from pincers, or vise -_\ct. spic.; Bism.; Cact.;
Cham.; Lyc.; Menisp.; Menyanth,.; Phos. ac.; Plat.; Puls.;
Verbasc.; Viola tr.

Pressing asunder — Arg. n.; Asaf.; Aur.; Bry.; Cim.; Cinch.;
Coral.; E1iod.; Fagop.; Memsp.; Prun. sp.; Ptel.; Stront.

Pressing, dull as from weight — Aloc; Alumen; Anac ; Cact.;
Carbo v.; Com.; Eup. perf.; Lech.; Menyanth.; Naja; Nus
v.; Op.; Petrol; Phell., Phos. ac.; Sep.; Sul

Pressing, in small spots — Arg. n.; Ign.; Kali bich.; Plat.;
Poth.; Thuya.

Shifting, shooting, stinging, tearing — Acon.; Aisc.; Apis;
Arn.; Ars; Bell.; Caps., Ced.; Cim.; Cinch. ; Col; Ign;
Irts, Kali bich.; Kali c.; Lac ¢.; Prun. sp.; Puls.; Sang.;
Sil.; Spig.; Vinca.

Shoch (electric) like, stabbing — Apis; Aster.; Bell.; Can.
1nd. Cic.; Cocc ; Gion.; Rhodium; Sang; Sep.; Tab.;
ZINC, Vv.

Stitching, sticking —- Acon.; -Fsc.; .\rn.; Ars.; Bell; Bry.;
Can. ind.; Caps ; Cycl.; Kal c., Niccol.; Puls.; Tar_ h.
Stupefying — Arg. n.; Bell, Bry.; Gels.; Glon.; Senec.;

Staph.; Syph.

Throbbing, beating, hammering, pulsating —.4con.; Act.
spic.; Amyl; Arg. n.; Ars.; Bell., Bry.; Cact.; Can. ind.;
Caps., Chin, ars.; Chin. s., Cim ; Cinch., Eup. perf.; Ferr.
m.; Ferr. p.; Gels.; Glon.; Glycerin; Hyper.; Iris; Lec d.;

Lach.; Lyc.; Mel; Nat. m.; Nux v.; Paul.; Psor.; Puls.;

Sang.; Sil.; Spig ; Sul.; Tongo; Ver. v

CONCOMITANTS — Anguish, anxiety -- Acon.; Ars.; Plat.

Arterial, excitement, tension - Acon ; Bell., Glon.; Glycerin;
Mel.; Poth.; Usnea, Ver. v.

Chilliness --- 47g. n.; Camph.; Lact. v.; Mang. m.; Puls.;
Sang.; Sil.

Coldness in back and occiput - Berb. v. .

Coldness in head -- Calc. ac., Calc. ci. Sep.; Ver. a

Coldness of hands and feet — Bell., Cak. c.; Fecr. mj
Lach.; Meli.; Menyanth., Naja; Sep; Ver. a.

Colic —Aloe; Cocc.

Constipation-— Aloe; Alum.; Bry.; Evonym.; Hydr.; Lac d.;
Niccol.; Nux v.; Plumb. m.

Coryza — Agar.; Camph.; Cepa.

Cough — Arn.; Caps.; Lyc. .

Delirium — Agar.; Bell.; Syph.; Ver. a.

Diarrhoea — Aloe; Cham.; Pod ; Ver. a.

Drowsiness — 4:i.; Ant. t.; Branca; Chel.; Dub.; Gels.;
Indium, Lept.; Myr.; Stellar.

Ears, burning — Rhus t.

Ears, deafness — Chin. s.; Verbasc.

Ears, roaring — Aur.; (jun. s, Cinch.; Ferr. m.; Sang.;
Sulphon.

Ears, stitching —- Caps. oo

Empty feeling in stomach — /gn.. Kali p.; Sep.

Excitement, emotional — Can ind,; Pall.

Excitement, sexual — Apis; Plat. mur.

Exhaustion, asthenia — 4rs.; Aur. br.; Cinch.; Gels.; Ign.;
Indium; Lac d.; Lob. infl.; Pier. ac.; Sang.; Sul.

Eyes; blindness, or visual disturbances, precede or attend
— Anhal; Bell.; Cycl.; Gels.; Ign; Irts; Kali bich.; Kali
‘810 HEAD

c.; Lac c.; Tac d. Nat. m.; Niccol ; Nux v.; Pier. ac.;
Pod.; Sang.; Sil; Spig.; Ther.; Zine s.
Eyes, enlarged feeling -- Arg. n.
yes, heaviness  Aloc
Eyes, heaviness of, and lids — Bell.; Gels.
Eyes, injection — Bell.; Meli.; Nux v.
Eyes, lachrymation — Phell.; Spig.; Taxus.
Eyes, soreness, pain-—-Ced.; Cim.; Eup. perf.: Gels.; Ho-
marus; Menthol; Myr.; Nat. m.; Phell.; Scutel.; Sil.; Spig.
Eyes, vision returns as headache comes on —J/ris; Lac d.;
t. in
Face, flushed, bot —4con., Amyl; Bell.; Cham.; Ferr. p.;
Gels; Glon., Meh., Naya; Nat m.; Nux v.; Pod.; Sany.,
Sep
Face, pale --.\con.; Cale c¢; Cinch ; Ign.; Lach; Lob. infl.;
Mech; Nat. m: Sil; Spig; Ver. a
Faintness Nuxy. Ver a.

Fever — Acon., -Ars.; Bell., Ferr. p

Flatulence - - -\sclep. t. Calc. ac.; Cale. p.; Can. ind.; Carbo
«© XNanth.

Gastralgia, attending or following -  [ism.

Gastro-intestinal derangements — Agar; -Aloc; Arg. 11.5
Ars.; Bry; Can. ind.; Carbo v.; Crtch.; Iris; Nie v.;
Pod ; Puls.

Hair, falling out — \nt. c.; Nit. ac.; Sil.

Head nodding — Lamium; Sep.

Head retracted Bell ; Cocc ;.Gossyp.

Heart’s action labored - Lycopus.

Haemorrhoids — Nu v.

Hunger — Anac; Cact; Epiph., Ty; Lye.; Pser.

Hypochondrium, right, stitches — Esc.

Irritability -—- Anac.; Bry.; Cham.; Ign: Nux_v.

Liver disturbance — Chel..; Jugl. c.; Lept.; Nux v.

Loquacity — Can. ind.

Mental depression, despondency —— Aloe; Arg. om; | Aur.
Ton.: Indol; Iris; Lac d; Naja; Pier. ac.; Plumb. m.
Puls.; Sars.; Sep.; Zine m. ;

Mental weakness — Arg. n.; Nux v.; Sil.

Muscular soreness -— Gels ; Rhus t.

Nausea - - Aloe; Ant. c., Ats3 Brv.; Coce.; Gels.; Indol;
Tpec., Ins, Vac c.: Tac d.; Lob. infl.; Lob. purp; Nata.
pt im: Nuc c., Paul; Petrol; Puls.; Sang., Sep; Subj
au

Nodules, gouty of scalp - - Sil .

Nosebleed -~\gar. .\ut c.; Ham.; Mel.

Nose, dry, neuralgia - - Dulc. .

Numbness, tingling, of lips, tongue, nose — Nat. m.

Numbness — Chel. Jndol; Plat.

Occipital soreness— Cim.: Sil.

Oversensitiveness - \r-; Rell. Cham.; Cinch.; Coff.; Ign.;
Nux v; ou.; Spig.; Tela ar.

Pains in abdomen Cina; Col.; Ver. a

Pains in limbs - - Sang.

Paina in lumbar region - Radium.

Palpitation Cact.: Spig.

Polyuria — -\sclep. s.; Gels.; Ign; Lac d.; Sang.; Scutel.;
Si
HEAD 811

Ptyalism — Fagus; Iris

Respiratory affections -— !.act. v.

Restlessness — 4rs.; Helleb.; Ign.; Pyr.; Spig.

Scalp, bruised feeling —- Esc ; Cinch., Col.; Sil.

Scotoma — Aspar

Sleeplesaness -—— Coff.; Indium; Syph.; Zinc. v.

Spasmodic symptoms - - Ign.

Sweat profuse — Lob. infl; Tab.

Temporal veins engorged ~ Carls.; Gels.

Thirst — Pulex.

Tongue coated, fetor oris, etc.-— Calc. ac.; Card m.; Eu-
onym.; Gymmnocl.; Pals.

Toothache -— Sang.

Trembling all over —- .4rg. n.; Bor.; Gels.

Vertigo -- Acon.; Argost.; Bry.; Chin. s.3;  Cinch.; Cocc.;
Eup. purp.; Gels ; Glon.; Ign.; Lept ; Lob. purp ; Nui z.,
Pod.; Sep.; Sul.; Xanth.

Vomiting — Ars.; Bry.; Cale. ac* Cham.; Cinch.; Coec.;
Glon.; Ipec.; Iris; Tac c3 Lac d., Lob iil; Meli.;
Nat. m; Nux v.; Puls.; Robin ; Seng.; Sep; Sil.; Tab.;
Ver. a; Zine. s.

Yawning — Kali c.; Staph

MODALITIES — Aggravation: After drugging: Nux v.

After midnight - Ferr. m

Afternoon — Ananth.; Bad; Beill., Cvcl.; Eup. purp.; Indol;
Lob. onfl, Mell.

Air, open — .475., Bov.; Branca; Cich., Coce.; Coff.; Mag.
m, Nuxv, Sep

Anger — Nux v.

Ascending — Ant. c.; Tell.; But. ac; Cah. ¢.; Conv.; Men
vanth

Attention, close -- Ign.

Awaking from sleep -— Lach.

Beating time -—Anhal.

Bending head backward —Glon

Bending head forward — [Bell.; Cob.

Closing teeth — Am. c. . .

Cold, draft of air —Ars.; Bell; Cinch ; Eup. purp.; Ferr.
p.; Ichthy.; Ign.; Tris; Nux v.; Rhod.; Sil.

Contact, touch— Bell., Cinch.; Verr. p.; Rhus t.; Tar, Ch.

Coughing — Acon.; Ain.; Bell.; Bry.; Caps.;_ Carbo v.; Iris;
Kali c.; Nat. m., Nur v.; Petrol.; Phos.; Sep.; Sul.

Drinking coffee —~ Act. spic.; Ign ; Nux v.

Drinking milk — Brom.

Eating — Am. c.; Arn.; Ars.; Atrop.; Bry.; Cact.; Coce.;
Coff.; Gels.; Ign.; Lach; Lyc., Nux v.

Evening — Aur.; Caust.; Cepa; Cycl.; Eup. purp.; Indol;
Kali s.; Puls.; Thlaspi.

Exertion, mental or physical — .\loe; 4nar.; Arg. n.; Coce ;

Eptph.; Gels.; Nat. c.; Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Pier. ac.;
Sep. Sil.
Gradually: crescendo, decrescendo — Plat.; Stann.
Hawking — Conv. ;
Jar, misstep, etc. — Aloe; Bell.; Bry.; Cinch.; | Crot.; Ferr.
p.; Glon.- Lyc.; Menyanth.; Rhus t.; Sil.; Spig.;” ir.
Left side — Anac.; Ars. m.; Brom.; Chin. 5.3 Cycl. Epiph.;
812 HEAD

Eup. Purp. j Lach.; Niccol.; Oreodaph.; Paraf.; Sapon.;
eP-5 ;

Senec.; Spig.i a is
Light— Bell.,; Ferr.; ig ed Lyssin; {on.; ; Kalic; Nus v.;
Oreodaph. ; "Phell.; “Sil;

Lying down — Ars, mat ell: dou? 3 "obi: Eup. perf.; Gels.;
jon.; Lyc.; Sang.

Lying on back of head — Cocc.; Col.

Tying on painful side | — Sep.
mses — Croc; Lac : Nat. m.; Sep.

Morning — -7isc.; te Am. m.; Aspar.; Cycl.; Hep.; Lac
d.; Myr ; Nat. m.; "Niccol.; Nous uv; Phos. ac.; Pod.;
Sang.; Spig.; Stellar.; Sul.

Morning on awaking, opening eyes — Raves ; Bry.; Graph.
Nat. m.; Nux v.; Onosm.; Strych. ;

Motion § - Acon.; Ans; Bell.; Bry.; But. ac i 5 Cinch.; Cocc.
Gels. ; Glon.; Glycerin; Ign.; Iris; Lach. Mag. m.; Menthol
Nat. m.; Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Ptel.; Rhus ts; ‘Sep.; Sil.
Sypig.; Stann.; Ther.

Motion of eyes —- Becll.; _Bry.5 Cim ; Col.; Cupr. m.; Gels.
Ichth.; Ign.; Mux v.; Physost.; Puls; 3 ‘Rhus t.; ee Spig.

Muscular strain -— Cale. c.

Narcotics -— Coff.

Night resi ; Aur., Bov.; Merc. d.; Ptel.; Puls.; Strych.
u yph

Noises — Acon.; 3 Ars; Bell.; Coff.; Ferr. p.; Ign.; Lac d
Lachnanth.; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Phell.; Phos. ae.; Ptel.
Sang.; Sil., Spig.; Tar. h.

Noon —- Chin, S35 Sang.; ; Tab.

Nosebleed -- Amy]; Ant. c.

Objects, bright -— Be : Oreodayh., Phos. ac.; Sil; Spig.

Odors — Coifl.; Ign.; Selen.

Overheating --- Carbo v.; Sil

Pressure — }iosc.; ; Hep; Ijach.; Nat. ars.; Ptel.; Sil.

Riding in cars — Cocc.; Wali c; ; Petrol.

Right side — Hell., Wry.; Caci.; Carb. ac.; Chel.; Crot.;
lep.; Tiis; Lye.; Mez.; Sang.; Taxus.

Rising in bed - 87y.; Coce.

Sitting — Rhus t.

Sleep after -— Crot. casc ; Ign.; Lach.

Stimulants, abuse —1gn., Nux v.

Stool — Aloe; Ign.; Ox. ac.

Stooping - - Acon.; ; Ars. m3 Bell: Bry.; Glon.; Ign.; Nux v.;
Puls.; Rhus v.; Sep.; Sil.; Spig.; Sul.

Sun - -Bell.; Gels.; Glon.; Kali bich.; Lach.; Nat. c.; Nux v.3
Sang.; Selen.; ; Spig.

Talking —Cact.; Ign.; Mez.

Tobacco -- Carb. ac.; ‘Gels. ; 3 Hep.; Ign.; Lob. infl.; Nat. ara

Warmth in general — Aloe; Bry.; 3. Ce, 2% ~ Euphras.; 3; Glan.:
Hyper.; Led.; Niccol.; H Phos.; Puls.;

Water, sight of — Lyssin.

Weather changes — Calc. p.; Dulc.; Gusite Phyt.; Peor.;
Rhod ; Spig.

Wine -- Nux v.; Rhod.; Zine.

Winter - - \loc; Busin.; Carbo v.; Nux v.; Sabad.; Sul.

worth in black —-Ced.

AMELIO ‘TION —- After rising: Kali p.

} ‘Bending head backward —- Bell.; Murex.
HEAD 813

Bending head forward —Cim.; Hyos.; Ign.

Closing eyes — Ant. t.; Bell

Cold in general — Aloe, Alumen; Ars.; Bism.; Cepa; Cycl.;
Ferr p.; Lyc.; Phos.; Poth.; Pls. ; Spig.; 3 Tab.

Conversation — Dulc.

Dark room — Sang.; Sil.

Eating — Alum; Anac.; Apium gr.; Carls.; Chel.; Coca:

ali p.; Lith. c.: Psor.

Holding hands near head — Carbo an.; Petrol.; Sul. ac

Lying — Bry. ; Cinch.; Ferr.; Gels ; Glon.; Ign.; Lach.; Nux
v.; Phos. ac.; Sang.; Sil; Ther.

Lying on painful side -- Cale ner : Ign

Lying on painful side with head high —- ~ Bell.; Gels.

Lying on painful side with head low— Absinth.; Asth.
lenses, during — Bell.; Cepa; Glycerin; Jonosia; Lach.;
Meh.; Zine. m.

Mental exertion — Helon.; Pier.

Motion, gentle —~ Cinch.; Glon.; Helon.; ; Iris; Kali p.; Puls.

Motion, hard, continued — Sep.

Nosebleed — Bufo; Keir. p; Mag. s; Mel.; Psor.; Rhus t.

Open air —<Acon.; Act. spic.; Cepa; Coca; Indol; Jonosia;
Puls.; Radium; Sep.; Thuya.

Partially closing eyes Aloe; Coccinel.; Oreoda phe

Polyuria — Acon.; Gels.; Ign.; ’Phos. ac.; *Sang.; > Ver. a.

Pressure — Apts; Arg. %.; Bell.; Bry.; Carbo Bil Cinch.;
Col.; Gels.; Glon.; Ign.; Lac d.; Mag. p; Menyanth. ;
Nux m. ; Nux v.; Paris; Puls.; Sane.; Sil.; Spig.; Thuya;

Ver,
Raising head — Sulphon.
Rest, quiet — Bell; Bry.; Cocc.; Gels.; Lith. c., Menyanth.;
Nux v.; Oreod: aph,; Puls.; Sang.; Sil; Spig.
Rubbing — Indigo; Tah
Semierect posture — Bell.
Sleep — Coccinel.; Gels.; Sang.; Sil.
Smoking — Aran.
Stimulants — Gels.
Stool and expelling flatus — 2th.; Sang.
Stooping — Cina; Ign; Menyanth.
Tea — Carb. ac.
Thinking of pain — Camph.; Helon.; Or. ac.
Turning head forward — Ign.
Uncovering head — Glon.
Warmth in general — Arm. c.; Cinch.; Col.; Ichthy.; Mag.
Wrirgping oF bandaging, tightly — A Apis; Arg.
rapping or a, — Agar.; 18 5
Clon. 5 Ign.; lac dy wi i oar ; ‘Picr, ac.; Puls.: Sil:
Stront.
HYDROCEPHALUS — (acute and chronic): hydrocephaloid:

Acon.; Apis; A ia Ars.; Bac., Bar, c.; Bell.;
Bry. : odie a ole. pes ; Canth Carb. ac.; Chin. 's.; Cinch.;
Cupr. ac.: Cyprip.;. Dig.; Gels; Helleb.; Iod.; Iodof.;

c.; Kali iod.; VLapurn': :’ Mere. ¢.; 3 Mere. 8.3 Cinothera;

ip.; Phos.; Pod.; Sil; Solan. n.; Sul.; Tub.; Ver. a; Zinc.
br.; Zinc, m.; » Zine. mur.
MOTION — POSITION OF HEAD — Boring back into pillow
or polling sideways: — Apis; Arum; Bell.; Helleb.; Pod.;
inc. m.
814 HEAD
Cannot hold head up, neck so weak — Abrot.; Zth.; Coce.;
Nat m; Ver. a.
Drawn back, retracted — Agar.; Art. v.;  Bell.; | Camph

monobr.; C1c.; Cur.; Hydroc. ac.; Iodof.; Morph.; Sec.;
Stram.; *Sul.; Ver. v.

Motion constant, jerking trembling — Agar.; Ant. t.; Ars.;
Bell.; Can, ind; Cham.; Hyos.; Lamium; Myg.; Nux m.;
Op.; Stram.; Strych.; ; Zinc. m.

SCALP — Dandruff (seborrhoea): — Am m.: Ars.; Bar. c.;
Branca; Bry.; Fluor. ac.; Graph.; Hep.; Heracl.; lod;
Kali s.; Lyc; Nat. m.; Phos.; Sanic.; Sep.; Sul.; Sul.
iod.; Thuya.

ERUPTIONS — Boils: Anac.; Ant. t.; Aur.; Cale. mur.; Calc.
s.; Dule.; Hep.; Jugl. m5 Scrophul.; Sil,

Crusta lactea — Arct. j Astacus; Bar, cs 3 Calc. c.; Cale. s.5
Cic.; Clem.; Dule.; Graph Hep i Kali m.; Lyc ; Merc.;
Mez.; Oleand.; Petrol ; Psor.; ; Rhus t.; Sars.; 3 Scrophul.;
Sep., Sul.3 Sul.; Trfol.; Vinca m.; Viola tr.

Eczema — Arct. |.; Astac.; Calc. c.; Clem.; Graph.; Hydr.;
Lye Olcand.; Petrol.; Psor.; Selen.; Sul; Tellur.; Viola

Erp tipelas — Bell.; Euphorb.; Rhus t.

Favus (porrigo, scald bead) — Aithiops: wars 35. Ars. iod.;
Cale, c.; Calc. mur; Cale. s.; Ferr. iod.; Graph.;
Hep.; Jugl. r.; Kali s.; Nit. ac.; Sep.; 3 Sil; Sul.; Viola tr.

Growths, tumors, exostoses — Ananth.; Cale. f.; "Cupr. nm;
Eluor. ac.; Hekla; Kak tod.; Merc. phos. ; Mere.; Sul.;

till.

Herpes — Ananth.; Chrys.; Oleand.; Rhus t.

Itching eruptions --Clem.; Oleand.; Sil.; Staph.; Sul.

Moist, humid eruptions — Cah. »., Clem; Graph ; Hep.;

ye.; Merc.; Mes.; Oleand.; Petrol.; Psor.; Rhus ty 3 Sep.;
Sil.; Staph.; Vinca. .

Moist, humid eruptions, behind ears —Graph.; Lyc.; Ole-
and.; Petrol.; Staph.; Thlaspi; Tub.

Moist, ‘humid eruptions, of margin of Bair, nape of neck
—Clem.; Hydr.; Nat. m.; Oleand.;

Plica polonica — Ant. t.; ‘i Bar. ay Bor.; a "Graph.; Lyc.; Nat.
m.; Psor.; Sars.; Tub.; Vinca; Viola tr.

Pustules —- Arundo; Clem.: Graph.; Iris; Jugl. c.

Ringworm (tinea ca itis) — Ars.; Bac.; Bar. m; Cale. c.; ;
Sirvs ; Dule.; Graph; Kali s.; Mes.; Petrol; Psor.;
Sep.; Sil.; Sul.; Tellur.; Aa Viola tr. See Skin.

Scabs, crusts — Ant. c.; ;_Ars.; Cale. s.; .3 Cic.; Dule.; Graph.;
Hep.; Lye.; Mez.; Sul; Trifol.

Scales, dry — Ars.; Kah s.; Mez.; Not. m.; Phos.; Phyt;
Psor.; Sanic.; Thlaspi.

Spots, red —- Tellur.

Were Bar. c.; Bens. ac., Grapb.; Hep.; Kali iod., Nit. ac:

HAIR — Brittle, harsh, dry: Bad.; Bell.; Bor.; Graph; Kak
¢.; Plumb. m.; Psor.; Sec.; "Staph.; Thuya.

Falling out (alopecia) —Aium.; Ant. c; Ars.; Arundo;
Aur.; Bac.; Bar. c.; Cae c.; Carbo v; Chrysar.; Fiver.
oc i frpeh.s H pers Kali e: Lye; Mancin.; Mez.

rn Nit, oe.; hos. ac.; Pi Pix liq; Pbelons:
; ‘Sep .¢ Sil; ‘Seryeh” ‘ast Syph.; Thatlium, Thuya; Thyr.;
Sp! ingur.; Vinca; Zinc. m.
814 HEAD
Cannot hold head up, neck so weak — Abrot.; Zth.; Coce.;
Nat m; Ver. a.
Drawn back, retracted — Agar.; Art. v.;  Bell.; | Camph

monobr.; C1c.; Cur.; Hydroc. ac.; Iodof.; Morph.; Sec.;
Stram.; *Sul.; Ver. v.

Motion constant, jerking trembling — Agar.; Ant. t.; Ars.;
Bell.; Can, ind; Cham.; Hyos.; Lamium; Myg.; Nux m.;
Op.; Stram.; Strych.; ; Zinc. m.

SCALP — Dandruff (seborrhoea): — Am m.: Ars.; Bar. c.;
Branca; Bry.; Fluor. ac.; Graph.; Hep.; Heracl.; lod;
Kali s.; Lyc; Nat. m.; Phos.; Sanic.; Sep.; Sul.; Sul.
iod.; Thuya.

ERUPTIONS — Boils: Anac.; Ant. t.; Aur.; Cale. mur.; Calc.
s.; Dule.; Hep.; Jugl. m5 Scrophul.; Sil,

Crusta lactea — Arct. j Astacus; Bar, cs 3 Calc. c.; Cale. s.5
Cic.; Clem.; Dule.; Graph Hep i Kali m.; Lyc ; Merc.;
Mez.; Oleand.; Petrol ; Psor.; ; Rhus t.; Sars.; 3 Scrophul.;
Sep., Sul.3 Sul.; Trfol.; Vinca m.; Viola tr.

Eczema — Arct. |.; Astac.; Calc. c.; Clem.; Graph.; Hydr.;
Lye Olcand.; Petrol.; Psor.; Selen.; Sul; Tellur.; Viola

Erp tipelas — Bell.; Euphorb.; Rhus t.

Favus (porrigo, scald bead) — Aithiops: wars 35. Ars. iod.;
Cale, c.; Calc. mur; Cale. s.; Ferr. iod.; Graph.;
Hep.; Jugl. r.; Kali s.; Nit. ac.; Sep.; 3 Sil; Sul.; Viola tr.

Growths, tumors, exostoses — Ananth.; Cale. f.; "Cupr. nm;
Eluor. ac.; Hekla; Kak tod.; Merc. phos. ; Mere.; Sul.;

till.

Herpes — Ananth.; Chrys.; Oleand.; Rhus t.

Itching eruptions --Clem.; Oleand.; Sil.; Staph.; Sul.

Moist, humid eruptions — Cah. »., Clem; Graph ; Hep.;

ye.; Merc.; Mes.; Oleand.; Petrol.; Psor.; Rhus ty 3 Sep.;
Sil.; Staph.; Vinca. .

Moist, humid eruptions, behind ears —Graph.; Lyc.; Ole-
and.; Petrol.; Staph.; Thlaspi; Tub.

Moist, ‘humid eruptions, of margin of Bair, nape of neck
—Clem.; Hydr.; Nat. m.; Oleand.;

Plica polonica — Ant. t.; ‘i Bar. ay Bor.; a "Graph.; Lyc.; Nat.
m.; Psor.; Sars.; Tub.; Vinca; Viola tr.

Pustules —- Arundo; Clem.: Graph.; Iris; Jugl. c.

Ringworm (tinea ca itis) — Ars.; Bac.; Bar. m; Cale. c.; ;
Sirvs ; Dule.; Graph; Kali s.; Mes.; Petrol; Psor.;
Sep.; Sil.; Sul.; Tellur.; Aa Viola tr. See Skin.

Scabs, crusts — Ant. c.; ;_Ars.; Cale. s.; .3 Cic.; Dule.; Graph.;
Hep.; Lye.; Mez.; Sul; Trifol.

Scales, dry — Ars.; Kah s.; Mez.; Not. m.; Phos.; Phyt;
Psor.; Sanic.; Thlaspi.

Spots, red —- Tellur.

Were Bar. c.; Bens. ac., Grapb.; Hep.; Kali iod., Nit. ac:

HAIR — Brittle, harsh, dry: Bad.; Bell.; Bor.; Graph; Kak
¢.; Plumb. m.; Psor.; Sec.; "Staph.; Thuya.

Falling out (alopecia) —Aium.; Ant. c; Ars.; Arundo;
Aur.; Bac.; Bar. c.; Cae c.; Carbo v; Chrysar.; Fiver.
oc i frpeh.s H pers Kali e: Lye; Mancin.; Mez.

rn Nit, oe.; hos. ac.; Pi Pix liq; Pbelons:
; ‘Sep .¢ Sil; ‘Seryeh” ‘ast Syph.; Thatlium, Thuya; Thyr.;
Sp! ingur.; Vinca; Zinc. m.
HEAD 815

Greasy -- Benz. nit.; Bry ; Mere

Gray, premature — Lyc; Phos. ac, Sec; Sul. ac.

Tangled, in bunches - Bor., Fluor. ac.; Lyc.; Psor., Tub.;

inca,

ITCHING of scalp -— Alum; Ant. c., .drs., Arundo; Boz;
Cale. c.; Carbo v.; Clem; Grapi.; Weracl ; lodof.; Jugl.
r, Mag. c.; Manem ; Menisp.; Nit. ac.; Oleand, Phos;
Sep.; Sil.; Strych.; Sul; Tellur.; Vinca.

Neuralgia — 4con.; Cim.; Hydr.; Phyt.

Numbness — Acon.; Alum.; Ferr. br.; Graph.; Petrol.

Sensitive to touch, combing -fron., Apis; Arn.; — Ars.;
Aza.; Rell; Bov.; Brv., Carbo v.; Caust.; Cinch.;
Euonym ; Eup. perf.; Gels, Hep.; Kali bich.; Lachnanth.;
Meli.; Merc.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Nux m.; Nua v.; Oleand.;
Fans; Rhus t.; Sep.; Sil., Strych.; Sul.

Sweat — Cale. c.; Cale. p.; Cham., Graph.; Hlelleb.; Hep.;
Toracl.; Hyper.; Mag. m., Mere.; Pod.; Rheum; Sanic.;
St

Tension — Acon., Arn.; Asar.; Bapt., Canchal.; Caust.; Iris;
Merc., Paris; Ratanh.; Selen.; Sticta; Viola.
SENSATIONS — As if a ball, firmly lodged in forehead:
Staph.
As if brain were frozen — Indigo.

As if brain were loose, in forehead, falling laterally -- Bell.;
Rhus t.; Sul. ac. .
As if hair were pulled, on vertex — Acon.; Arg. n.; Kalin;

Iachnanth.; Mag. c., Phos.
As if top would fly off —Acon.; Can. ind.; Cim.; Passif.;
Syph.; Vise. a.; Yucca. .
Bewildered, confused, stupid, intoxicated feeling — Absinth. ;
Acon.; Ail., loe; Anac.; Apis; Aran.; Arn.; Bapt.,
Bell.; Bry.; Can ind.; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Coce.; Gels. ; Glon.;
Helleb.;° Menthol; Nat. c.; Nux m.; Nx v.; OP-;, Phos.
ac.; Phos.; Quercus; Rhus t; Sep.; Sul.; anac.;
Xerophyl.; Zinc. m. f brain A A Bopt

Bruised, sore feeling, o ‘ain Aig m; mn; apt.;
Dat Belhs; Bov.; Cinch.; Eupion; Led.; Nur v.; Rhus
t. See Headache. .

Burning, heat — Acon.; Alumen; Apis; Arn.; Ars.; Aster.;
Bell.; Canth.; Nux v.; Phos; Zine. Daph P

Burning on vortex — Avena; Cupr. s.; Daphne; Frax. om.;
Graph. ; Helon.; Lack.; Rhus t.; Sul.; Tarax.

Bursting — Acon.; Arg. n,; Bell.; Bry.; Caps.; Cinch.; Co-
caine; Formica; Gels.; gion Nat m.; ox m, cal fj

Coldness — Agar.; Ars.; Bar. c.; Calc. c.; Cale. p.; Cale. sil.;
Carbo v.; Con.; Helod.; Laur.; Nat. mj; Sep.; Sil.;

Ver. a.
Coldness in occiput — Berb. v.; Calc. p.; Dule.; Ferrula;
elod.; Phos.
Compressed in vise — Anoc.; Antipyr.; Arg. 0.; Berb. v.;
‘act.; Can. ind.; Carb, ac.; Cim.; Coca; Eup. oe
Franciscea; Gels.; Mag. p.; Plat.; Stann. See ies te
Crawling, formication —Acon.; Cale. c.; Petrol; Ran. b.;
Ran. rep., Sul.
816 HEAD

* Emptiness, hollowness --- 4rg. m.; Caust.; Coce.; Cupr. ac.;
Cupr, m.; Granat.; Jgn.; Mancin.; Phos.; Puls.; Zine.
Enlarged, full, expanded feeling — Acetan.; Acon ; Arg. .;
Ars, m.; Bapt.; Bell.; Bov.; Bry.; Cim.; Cocc.; Gels. ;
Glon.; Jugl c; Justicia Lachnanth.; Meli.; Menthol;
Nat. c.; Nux v.; Oxytr.; Paris; Rhus t.; Usnea; Ver. ¢.

Gnawing in spot — Ran. s.

Heaviness — Acon.; Agar.; Aloe; Arn.; Apis; Bapt; Cale.
¢.; Chel; Cim.; Cinch.; Gels.; Mur. ac.; Op.; Oreodaph.:
Thos. ac; Rhus t.; Sep. Sere Headache.

Lightness —- Abies c.; Hyos.; Jugl. c.; Mancin.; Nat. ars.;
Nat. chlor,

Looseness of brain— 4m. c., Ars.; Bell.; Bry.; Cinch.;
Hyos ; Kali c.; Rhus t.; Spig.; Sul. ac.; Sul.

Numbness — Alum.; Bapt.; Bufo; Calc. ars.; Coce.; Con.;
Graph.; Kah br.; Oleand.; Paris; Petrol.; Plat

Opening and shutting — Can. ind.; Cim.; Coce.; Lac ec.

Tired feeling pis, Arn.; Chin. ars.; Con.; Ferr. p.i
Phos.; Zine v.

Undulating, surging, wavelike — Acon.; Aur.; Bell.; Canth.;
Chin, s.; Cim.; Cinch.; Glon.; Hep.; Hyos.; Ind.; Lach.;
Mag. p.; Melt; Nux v.; Pall.; Rhus t.; Senec.; Sul

VERTIGO—Dizziness: Remedies in general: Absiuth.; Acon.;

Adren.; Afsc. gl; th.; Agar.; Alum., Ambra; Ant.
c.; Apis; Apomorph.; Arg. .; Arn.; Ars. 1od.; Aur.
mur.; Bapt.; Bell., Bism.; Bor.; Bry.; Cale. ¢.; Can. ind.;
Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Chenop:; Chin. s.; Cum; Cinch;
Coca; Cou., Con; Cyel; Niig.: Eup. perf.; Ferr. m.;
Format.; Gels.; Gins.; Glon.; Granat.; Hydroc. ac.; lod.;
Kali_c.; aburn.; Lach.; Lith. chlor.; Lol.; Lupul.; Mere.
v.; Morph.; Mosch.; Nat. sal.; Nicot.; Nux v.; Op.; Ox.
ac. Petrol.: Phos.; Picr. ac.; Pod.; Puls.; Quercus;
Radium; Sal. ac; Senec.; Sep.; Sil.; Spig.; “Stront.;
Strych.; Sul.; Tab.; Tar. h.; Ther.; Wyeth.

CAUSE AND TYPE—Anemia of brain: Arn.; Bar m.; Cale
c.; Chin. s.; Cinch.; Con.; Dig., Ferr. carb.; Ferr.; Hydroc.
ac.; Nat. m; Sil.

Cerebral origin — Bell.; Cecc.; Gels.; Sulphon.; Tab.

Congestion of brain -- Acon.: Arn; Bell.; Cinch.; Cupr.
m.; Glon.; Hydroc. ac.; lod.; Nux .; Op; Stram.; Sul.

Epileptic — Arg. n.; Cale. «3 Cupr. m.; Kal.; Nux v.; Sil

Gastro-enteric derangement — Aloe; Bry.; Cinch; Coce.;
Tpec.; Kali c.; Nux v.; Puls.; Rham. cal.; Tab.

Hysterical —-- Asaf.; Ign.; Val.

Labyrinthic origin (Meniere's disease) —Arn.; Bar. m.;
Bry.; Carbon. s.; Caust.; Chenop.; Chin, sal.: Chin. s;
Cinch : Con.; Ferr. p.; Gels.; Hydrobr. ac.; Kali iod.;
Nat. sal.; Onosm.; Petrol.; Piluc.; Sal uc., Sil; Tab.;

er,

Mal-de-mer — Apomorph.; Cocc.; Petrol.; Staph.; Tab.
Mental exertion — Arg. n.; Nat. c.; Nux v.
Nervous origin — Ambra; Arg. n.; Coce.; Nux v.; Phos;
Rhus t.3 Ther.
loises — Nux v.; Ther.
dor of flowers —- Nux v.; Phos.
HEAD 817

Old_age (senile changes)-—- Ambra; Ars. tod.; Bar. m.;
Bellis; Con., Dig.; Iod.; Op.; Phos.; Rhus t.; Sul.

Open air — Arn.; Calc. ac.; Canth.: Cycl.; Nux vu.

Optical disturbances — Con.; Gels., Piloc.

Pelvic troubles — Aloc, Con.

Sunlight — Agar.

Worms. - ~ Cina; Spig. .

OCCURRENCE —- Alternates with colic: Col.; Mag. c.; Spig.

Beginning. in nape of neck, or occiput — Gels.; Iberis; Pe-
rol.; Sil.

When ascending stairs — Ars. hydr.; Cale. c.

When closing eyes —— Apis; Arn.; Lach.; Mag. p.; Ther;
Thuya.

When coughing — Ant. t.

When descending stairs —~ Bor ; Con.; Ferr.; Meph.; Sanic.

When eating — Am. c.; Cocc.; Mag. m.; Nur uv; Puls.

When entering warm room — Ars.; Jod ; Plat.; Tab.

When frightened —- Up.

When in high-ceilinged room — Cupr. ac.

When looking at colored light — Art. v.

When looking at running water — Arg. m.; Brom.; Ver. a

When looking down — Bor,, Oleand.; Kal.; Spig.

When looking fixedly — Caust.; Con.; Lach.; Oleand.

When looking up— Calc. c.; Chin. ars.; Granat.; Kali p.;
Petrol.; Puls.; Sil., Tab.

When lying down— Adon. v.; Apis: Calad.; Con.; Lach.; Nat.
m.; Nux v.; Rhod; Rhus t.; Sil; Staph.; Ther.; Thuya.

When opening eyes — Lach,; Tab.

When reading —- Am c.; Arn.; Cupr. m.; Nat. m.

When riding in carriage — Cocc.; Hep.; Lac d.; Petrol.

When rising from bed or chair — Acon.; Adon. v.; Bell;
Bry., Can ind.; Cocc , Con.; Ferr. m.; Nat. sal; Nux v.;
Oleand.; Op.; Petrol.; Phos; Rhus t.; Sul.

When rising in morning — Alum.; Bry.; Jacar.; Lach;

ye.; Nux v.: Op.; Phos.; Pod.; Puls.

When shaking or turning head—dcon.; Cale. ¢.; | Con.;
Hep.; Kali c.; Alorph.; Nat. ars.

When standing with eyes closed— Arg. n.; Lathyr.

When stooping -— dcon.; Bar. ¢; Bry Glon.; Iod.; Kal.;
Nux v.; Oreodaph.; Puls; Sul.; Ther.

When turning eyes -— Con. .

When turning head—Try.; Cale. c.; Col; Con.; Kali ce;
Menthol; Morph.; Nat. ars.

When turning head to left—=Col.; Con.

When turning in bed — Bell.; Con. .

When walking — Acon.; Agar.; Bell.; Caust.; Cinch.; Dig.;
Gels.; Kali_c.; Lach.; Mag. Tie Nit. ac.; Nux m3;
Oreodaph.; Petrol.; Phos. ac.; Ther.

When walking in dark — Stram.

When walking in open air —Agar.; Arn.; Cycl.; Dros.;
Nuxs v.; Sep.; Sul.

When walking over bridge or water — Ferr.; Lyssin.

CONCOMITANTS — Buzzing, tinnitus: Arg. n.; Bell.; Carbo

° v.; Chenop* Chin. s.; Gels. ; Pier, ac.; Strych.; Val.
818 HEAD

Deathly pallor -— Dub.; Puls ; Tab.

Debility, prostration —- Ambra; Arg. n.; Bapt.; Cinch.; Con.;
Echin.; Gels ; Tab.; Ver. a.

Dim _ vision, diplopia, etc.— Arg. n.; Bell.; Gels.; Gilon.;

. ux v.; Val; Vinca.

Drowsiness, hot head -- Eth.

Fainting, unconscious — Alct.; Desb. v.; Bry.; Carbo v.;
Glon ; Nux wv; Phos.; Sabad., Tab.

Gastralgia, spasms — Cic.
adache --- Acon ; Agrost.; Apis; Cocc.: Nux .

Intoxicated feeling-— Abies c.; Arg. m.; Bell.; Cinch;
Cocc , Con.; Gels.; Nux v.; Op.; Oxytr.; Petrol.

Liver disturbance — Bry.; Card. m.; el.

Nausea, vomiting -- Acon.; Bry.;  Cocc.; Euonym.; Kali
bch. Nux v, Petrol., Piloc.; Pod.; Puls.; Stront.; Teb.;

er.

Nervous phenomena — Ambra; Cocc.; Gels ; Ign.; Phos.

Nosebleed — Bell.; Bry.; Carbo an.

Opisthotonos — (ic.

Palpitation, heart symptoms — 7ith.; Bell.; Cact.; Dig.;
Pig.

Pressure at root of nose — Bapt.

Relief from closing eyes --- Aloe; Lol.

Relief from food -— Alum.

Relief from lying down — Apis; Atham.; Aur.; Bry.; Cinch.;
Cocc.; Nit. ac; Puls,

Relief from nosebleed -— Brom.

Relief from rest -— Arn.; Colch.; Cycl.; Spig.

Relief from vomiting — Tab. ;

Relief from walking in open air - Am. m.; Kali c.; Mag.
p.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Tab. .

Relief from warmth— Mang. m.; Sil.; Stront.

With staggering, trembling, weakness — dro. .;  Crot.;
Gels.; Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Stram.

With tendency to fall backward —- Absinth.; Bell;  Bry.;
Kali n.; Nux v.

With tendency to fall forward — Alum.; Bry.; Card. m.;
Caust.; Chel.; Elaps; Cuarea; Mag. p.; Petrol.; Pod,
Spig.; Stram.; Urt.: Vib. ep.

With tendency to fall to left — Aur. Bell; Con.; Dros;
Eup. perf.; lod.; Sal. ac.; Sil; Stram.; Zine.

With tendency to fall to right — Helod.; Kali n.
EYES

BROWS—Hairs fall out: Alum.;  Bor.: 3 i ;
Plumb ac.; Selen.; Sil. + Mere; Nit ae;
Pimples on --- Fluor. ac.; Sil.; Thuya.
Warty growths on -— Ananth.
CANTHI (angles) -— Itching, smarting: Alum.; Apium gr.;
rs.; Carbo v.; Fluor ac; Gamb.; Hep.; Lyc. 7 Nat. im ;
Nux v.; + Phos.; Succin. ac.; Sul.; *Zinc. m.
Sore, raw, fissured — Ant. c.; Bor.; Graph.; Petrol.; Stl.;
Staph.; Z:nc. m.
Swollen, red — Agar.; Arg. n.; Cinnab.; Graph.; Zinc. m.

CATARACT — Am. c.; Arg. iod.; Cale. ¢.; Calc, Can. s.;
Caust.; Chimaph, ; Ciner.; ,Cgphlcar.: Co ches 3. Con;
Euphras.; Yod.; Kali m.; Led; Mag. c.; Naph.; Nat. m;

Phos.; Platan ; Puls ; ass, ; Santen.; ec. 3 Senega;
Sep.; Sul; Sui; Tellur.; hiosin. ; i Zine.

CHAMBER, anterior, pus in — Hep.; Sil.

CHOROID — Cong stion: Agar.; Phos.; Rhod.; Ruta; Santon,

Choroid, ment — Acon. >; Arn; Nux v.

Choroid, Estosvavetion —Ma

Choroid, Inflammation (choroiditis), Atrophic — Nux  v.;
Phos.; Piloc

Choroiditis, disseminated and simple — Ars. Bell; — Bry.;
Ced.; Gels.; Ipec.; Koh iod.; Merc.; Merc. i. t.; Naph.;
Phos.; Pren. sp.; Saaton.; Tab.; Tellur.; Thuya.

Choroiditis, suppurative — Hep.; ; Rhus t.

Choroiditis, suppurative, with iris involvement — Kali iod,.
Prun. s*.; Sil.

Choroiditis, suppurative, with retinal involvement(syphilitic)
ur.; Kal 10d.; Kali m.; Merc. c.; Merc. s..9.°
CILIARY MUSCLE — Accommodation disturbed: ‘Ipec.;. Ruta.
Ciliary’ muscle, aretic condition — Arg. n.; Atrop.; ‘Caust

Dub.; Baris; Physost.
Ciliary ge spasm —- 4gar.; Eser.; Ipec.; Jabor.; Lil.
Physost.; Piloc.

CILIARY NEURALGIA — Ars.; Ced.; Chel.; Chenop.; Cim.
Cinch.; Cinnab.; Col.; Commocl.; Croe.; Crot, t.; Gals.
Lach.;” Mez.; Nat. m.; Paris; Phos.; Plant.; “Pram, sp.
Rhod.; Sapon.; Spig. See Pain.

CONJUNCTIVA —Chemosis: <Ap:s; Guarea; Hep.; Kali iod.
Rhus t.; Sul. ac.; Vespo.

Discharge, acrid — — Ars.; Arum; Euphras.; Merc. c.; Merc.
Psor.;
Discharge, clear mucus —Ipec.; Kali m.
Discharge, crmmy, profuse — Arg. n.; Calc. s.; Dule.; Hep.
Nat. .; Puls.; Rhus t.
Discharge, ropy *"— Kali bich. ‘
Eechymoses and injuries — Acon.; Arn.; Ham.; Lach.; Led.

Nux
Foreign ‘bodies, irritation — Acon.; Sul.
820 EYES

Granulations, blisters or wart like — Thuya.

Hyperemia - con ; Ais; Bell, Cepa: Ipec.. Nux 7, Rhus
t; Sul; Thuya.

Inflammation (conjunctivitis) — Acute and sub-acute ca-
tarrhal: -— 4con, Ams, Arq on., Ars, Rell., Canth,
Chleral., Dub.; Dule,; Euphras . Ferr. p., Guarea; Hep.;
Kali m.; Mere. c.; Mere per: Merc.; Nat. ais; Op; Pier.
ac.; Puls., Rhus t.; Sep.; Sticta; Sul.; Upas.

Inflammation, chronic — Alum.; Ant. t.; Arg. n.3 Ars.;
Aur. mur., Bell; Euphras.; Aah bich.; Mere. s.; Puls;
Sul., Thuya; Zine. m.

Inflammation, croupous, dipbtheritic — Acct. ac.; Apis; Gue-
rea; lod.; Kal bich.; Merc. cx.

Inflammation, follicular (granular) ~- Apis; Arg. n.3 Ars.
Aur. m.; Aur. mur.; Cale iod.; Crot. t.3 Jequir.; Kalt
buh, Nat. m.; Phyt.; Puls.; Thuya, Zinc. s.

Inflammation, gonorrhoeal — Acon.; Ant. t.; Apis; Arg. n.;
Cale. hypoph.; Hep.; Kali bich.; Mere. ¢.; Merc.; Puls.;
Rhus t; Ver. v.

Inflammation, gonorrhoeal, sympathetic form — 4rg. n., Eu-
phras.; Merc; Puls. Sce Purulent

Inflammation, phlyctenular --- Ant. t.; Cale. ¢; Calc. pict.;
Gan-t, Huphras.; Graph.; Ign.; Mere. ¢.; Puls.; Rhus ¢.;
il. 5 .

Inflammation, purulent — Arq. 1, Cale. hypeph.; Hep.;
Merc. c.; Merc.; Puls.; Rhus t; Sil.

Inflammation, pustular -- 4nt f., Arg. n.: Ars.3 Cale, ¢.3
Graph.: Hep.; Jequir.; Kali bieh ; Merc. c.; Mere. nit.;
Puls.; Rhus t

Inflammation, traumatic — Acon.;  Arn.; Bell.;  Calend.;
Canth.; Euphras.; Ham.; Led.; Symphyt.

CORNEA — Abscess of: Cale. s.; Hep.; Kali s.; Mere c.;
i1.; Sul.

Ectasia— Cale. p.

Exudation, serous — Apis.

Foreign bodies — Acon.; Cale. hypoph.; Hep.; Rhus t.; Sul.

Inflammation, (keratitis) —-Acon.; Apis; Ars.; Ars. iod.;
Aur. mur.; Bell; Can. §.; Con.; Euphras.; Hep.; Ilex;
ali bich.; Kali m.; Merc. c.; Nux v.; Phos.; Sang.;
Sul.; Thuya.

Inflammation, arthritic — Clem.; Colch.; Col.

Inflammation, herpetit, vesicular — dpis; drs.; Cale. p.:
Euphias.; Ran. b.; Tellur. .

Inflammation, interstitial, in persons of hereditary eyphilis
— Aur. m; Aur. mur.; Can. s.; Mere. c.; Mere. ey.

Inflammation, parenchymatous, syphilitic origin — 4%.
mur.; Cale. hypoph.; Kali 1od.; Kali m3, Mere, »., Sul.

Inflammation, phlyctenular — Afrs; Bell.; Cale. c.; Cale. ff.
Cale. p.; Cou; Graph.; Hep-; Ipec.; Mere. cs ‘Pals.
Rhus t.; Syph.; Thuya. sae

Onyx — Hep.

Opacities — Arg n.; Aur.; Aur, mu., Cadm 5; Cale. c.

"Cale. fl.; Cale. hypoph.; Cale. iod.; Caust.; Can. s.; Ciner.
Con., Euphtas.; Wep.; Kal bich.; ere. C.5 erc. &
Naph.; Nit. ac.; Phos.; Puls.; Sacchar., of.; , Senega
St.; Sul.; Thiosinam.; Zine. m.; Zine. s.
EYES 821

Pustules ——.Jnt. c., Cale c, Con, Crot. t; Euphias, [ep 5
Kali bich , Kal jod.; Mere. mot.. Nit. ac.

Staphyloma, after suppurative inflammation -.4pis, | Kuph-
ras.; Tlex; Physost.

Ulleers- -J2thiops antim.; Apis; Arg. n.; Ars; Aur mur;
Cale «3 Cale hypeph ; Cale. iod.; Cale sil.. Euphras ;
Graph, Hep, Koh buch; Kah im, Mere oc, Mare a fl,
Nat. m, Nit. ae, Rhus t. Si, Sul, Thuya; Zine m.

Uleers, deep -— \1s.; Muphras.; Aal bich., Mere. c., Mere.
i. fll; Mere 2or3 Sil

Ulcers, indolent -- Calc. ¢.3 Kali bich.; Sil; Sul.

Ulcers. superficial, flat-- Ary; .\saf;) Euphras.; Kali m.;
Mere; Nut ac

Ulcers, vascular Avrom

Wounds, incised, lacerated - Staph.

EYE-BALLS — Bad effects from exposure to snow: \con ; Cic
Bad effects from electric or artificia!t light }9(Glon , Jabor,
Bad effects from giare of fire -Acon, Canth.; Glon.; Mere.
Bad effects from operations —_. {con Asn, Asat.;  Bry.,

Croc; Ign; Led; Rhus t.; Senega, Stont.; Thaya.

Bad effects from sight seeing, moving pictures -~ Ain.

Burning, smarting — Acon., Ars.: Ais. mi Aw. mur;
Bell, Cale c, Canth.; Cepa, Croc. Euphras . Vagop ,
Ferr op; Jept.; Lye; Mag. p.; Merc. c.; Nat. ars; Nat
my; BPhyt; Piloc.; Puls.; Ran. b; Sang, Sul, Thuya;
Z1c, Mm,

Coldness — Alum.; Asar.; Con: Mez; Nat. m; Plat.

Coldness, as if wind blowing under lids - (voc ; Fluor ac;
Syph.

Dryness, heat -— 4con., Alum.; Ars.; Bell., Berb. v.35 Chom;
Croce; Giat; Lyc., Mere c.; Nat ais; Nat c., Nat m.;
Nat. 5.3 Nux mj; Senega; Sep.; Sticta; Sul; Zine. m.

Edema of ocular conjunctiva, translucent Apis.

Enlarged, swollen feeling — \con ; 9 fell Ox ac.; Paris;
Phos. ac, Khus t ; Sarrac ; Senega, Spig s ‘Vara,

Eruptions about - - Ant. t.; Crot t., Guaime

Heat, and flickering, worse in damp weather — Aran.

Heat, and sensitive to air —- Clem.; Coral

Heat -- Aisc., Carbo v.; Indol; Lil. t.; Meph; Phos ; Ruta;
Sapon.; Strych.; Su.

Heaviness — Bapt } Gels., Meli.; Onosm.; Op.; Paris; Parth.;
Sep.; Solan. lyc ; Sulphon.

Hemorrhage (inter-qcular) — Arn.; Ham.; Lach.; Led; Sul.
ac.; Supraren, ext.

Injuries — Acon , .irn.; Calend.; Canth.; Cochlear.; Ham.;
Jed; Physost.; Rhus t.; Sul. ac; Svmphyt

— Agar.; A4qn.; Ant. c.; Ars_m; Aur. mur.; Cale. ¢.3

Itching — Cepa: roe + Fagop.; Gamb.; Merc.; Nux v.;
Puls.; Rhus t.; Scilla; Sul.; Zinc. m

LOOK — CONDITION — Dull: Ant. c.; Ant. t., Bapt.; Merc.;

Onosm.; Solan lye R c a c
taring, distorted — Rell.; Can. ind.; Cic.; Cupr. m.;

Fined, Holtob.: Tilyos ; Morph.; CEnanthe; Op.; Phos ac.;

Prrcidia; Stram , Strych
822 EYES

Glazed, death-like ©p. Phos. ac; Zinc. m  Sce Face

Glistening, dazzling, brilliant -- Rell, Wry.; Canth., Cupr.
m.; Hyos.; Mere. ¢; Stram.; Ver. v.

Looking downwards - 4ith.; Hyus.

Protruding, bulging (exophthalmus) -- Amyl; Bell.; Clem.;
Commocel , ker. p.; Glon.; Eycop , Paris; Sang. tart;
Sapon , Spong, Stram.; Strych.; Thyr.

Red, lood-shot, suffused -- Icon ; disc ; Ail; Bell.; Cepa;
Cinnab , Dule; Gels ; Ilam; Hyos, Mere c., Morph,
Op.; Ruta, Si., Sulphon ; Sul; Thuva, Ver. v.

Red, inflamed — fron, Ant. oc; Ars; Aur. mur.; Pell.;
Caust. Clem.; fiuphras., Ferr. op.; Hlep.; Indol; Ipec.;
lacor, Lyc; Mere 5, Nat m.; Rhus t, Sang. n.

Red, raw- .\ig. ni; Crot t.

Red, with yellow vision - Aloe

Rolling downwards —- Eth, Hyos.

Rolling in vertical axis -- ens. nit.; Zine m.

Rolling on falling asleep - - 7th.

Rolling quickly with closed eyes — Cupr. m.

Rolling upwards -- Bell; Cice., Helleb.: Mur. ac.; Qunanthe.

Sensation as if fat on eyes - - Paraf.

Sensation as if sand or sticks in -dcon, Alum: —Ars.;
Caust., Wupbras, Petr. p.; Graph ; Nat. m.; Phos.; Phyt.;
Sul, Xeroph

Sensation as if wind blowing in eyes — Fluc: ac.

Squinting to relieve pain in forehead-  Aloc.

Stiffness = .\sa1., Aur , Aal.; Med.; Nat. ars.; Rhus t.

Sunken, surrounded by blue rings — Acct. ac.; Ant. c;
apm gi, .ls., Camphe, Ciwh, Ceopr omy: Granat ;
Teleb.; Ipee, Mhos ac, See; Staph, Upas, ber a,
Vise a See Face.

Syphilitic diseases Jacar ge; Kah iod.; Mere. i. fli; Nit ac

Trembling (nystagmus) —— gar, Benz mt.; Carbon. hydr.;
Cic., Gels., Jod.; Kali iod , Mag. p.

Unable to keep eyes fixed steadily — .\rg. n, Paris.

Whites of, yellow - Brassica; Cham.; Chel, Cinch, Crot.;
Dig.; Luonvm. tarop.; Lod., Mere: Myi., Nat p 3 Nat.
sy Pod, Plumb, Sep. See Face.

EYELIDS AND MARGINS — Agglutination: Agar.;  Alum.;
ant. oc, Apis; Arg. ns: Bor.; Cale. ec: Caust: Dig.;
Euphras., Graph ; Kal: bich.; Kalhoc; Lye; Mere. s.,
Nat ars.: Nat m.; Psor; Puls., Rhus t; Sep; Sul;
Uran ; Zine. m

Blueness - hig ; Morph

Drooping (ptosis) - Alum.; Caust; Con.; Dule; Gels ;
Hwmat.; Welod.; Kal; Morph; Nat. ais., Nit. ac.; Nux
m., Nux vj; Op.: Phos.; Plumb., Rhus t.; Sep.; Spig.;
Stram ; Sulphon.; Syph.; Upas; Ver. a; Zinc. m.

Dryness --4con.; Alum.; Ars.; Bell; Graph; Lith, o.3; Nux
v.i Puls; Senega; Sep., Sul; Zinc. m.

Dryness, scaliness -./rs., Bor.; Sep.; Tellur.; Thuya.

Ectropien - Apis, Graph.; Thiosinam

Entromon — £or., Graph: Nat. in; Tellur,

ERUPTIONS, growths, blisters, vesicles —Canth.; Nat. s;
Pall, Rhus t., Sep.; Thuya,

Chalazae, tarsal tumors Ant. t.; Calc.
Perr pyrowh.; Kale iod.; Platanus; Sil;
“inc. mi.

c.; Caust.; Con.;
Staph.; Thuya;
EYES 823

Cysts, sebaceous — Bens ac, Cale c, Calc. fl. Vod.; Kak
rod =Mere s; Platanus; Stabh.

Eczema, fissures — Bac.; Graph., Petrol., Straph.; Sul;

ellur.

Granular lids (trachoma) -- .flum , Ars.; Aur. mur.; Calc.
c.; Cinnab.; Dule , Euphras., Graph; Hep.s Jequir: Kah
bich.; Kah m.; Mere. per.; Nat ars; Puls.; Sep.; Sul.;
Thuya; Zinc. s.

Pustules — Ant. c.; Hep.

Scabs, crusts, scurfs— Arg. n.; .frs., Bot.; Cale. ¢; Graph.;
Kali m.; Lye ; Senega; Sep.

Styes (hordeolum) -- Agar, Apr, Auto moon; Cale pra;
Con , Graph , Hep.; Lyc.; Mee, Puls., Sep., Sil., Staph,
Sut; Thuva; Uran.

Ulcers —- Arg. ny cirs., Canst, Fuphias, Graph., ep;
lappa; Juye.: Sul., Tellur. Sce ‘Tissues.

Inflammation (blepharitis) — Acute: deon.. Apis, Arg on;
Ars.: Cham.; Dig.; Dule.: Euphras Wep: Kreos, Mere
1 fk; Merc, pro rub., Mere. s., Nat ars; Petiol, Puls.,
Rhus t ; Sul.; Upas; Uran

Inflammation, chronic - - Alum , Ant c.. city. ue, Aur; Bar.
c; Ror., Cale. c.; Clem; Kuphras., Graph , ep. Jugl ;
Mere c; Mere, pr. r, Petrol; Psor. Sep, Sil, "Siaph ,
Sul ; Tellur.

Inflammation, erysipelatous — .ifis, Ball, Rhus 1; Vespa.

Redness — Agar; Am hr; Ant. c, Aqis; Arg. ue; Ars;
Beli.; Cmnab.; Clem; Dig; Euphias ; Gruph. » Hep;
lye.; Merc. c. Mere 5, Rhus t.; Sabad.; Sul. See In-
flammation,

SENSATIONS — Burning and smarting: - Agar, Alum.; Apis;
Ars.; Arundo, Bell.; Cale ec; Copa. Cham ; Euphras. - ;
Graph. : Kali bich.; Kah 1od ; Lyc.; Mere; Mez.; Nat m.;
Puls ; Sabad. ; Sul.

Coldness — Phos. ac.

Heaviness — Gels.; ilemat ; Helod ; Sep. See Drooping.

Itching — Agar ; Alum; Cale ¢ ; Gambh. Graph.; Lye ; Mez.;
Morph ; Puls., Rhus t.; Staph.; Sucam acy Sul, Tellur.;

Zine.
Pulsation of superciliary muscle- Cina.
Rawness and soreness’—- {nt oc, Arg on; Ara; Bor;

Euphras.: Graph., Hep; Mere. ¢.; Petiol; Sul; Zine.
See Blepharitis.
Spasms of eyelids, twitching, (blepharospasm, nictitation)
- Agar, Ars.; tren » Bell, Cale ¢ ; Cham ; Cic.; Cod.;
Crocs 3 Ever., Gels.; Guaiac.: Hyos.: sIgn.; Lob. purp: Mag.
; Nat. m'; Nicot.; Nur 7, Physost.; Puls.; Strych.;
Ra. ac,
Stiffness — Caust, Gels; Kal.; Rhus t
Swelling (edema) — Ar. br.; Apis; Arg. n.; Ars.; Ars. m.;
Aur. mur.; Bell; Cale c 3 Dig.; Euphorb, d.; Euphras. :
Graph.; Hep.; Kalt c.. Kali jod., Merc. c.; Nat. ars.;
Phos. ; Puls ; Rhus t.; Rhus v.: Sabad.; Sep.
Thickening —— Alum , Arg n.; Cale. ¢.; Graph. ; Hep.; Merc.;
‘ellur.
GLAUCOMA —:4con.; Atrop.; Aur.; Bell.; Bry.; Caust.; Ced.;
Cocaine; Col.: Commocl.; Eser. ; Gels., Mag. c.; Nux v.;
824 EYES

Op.; Osm.; Phos., Physost.; Prun. sp.; Rhus t.; Spig.;
Supraren, cxt.
HYPOPION —Crot t.; Hep.; Merc. ¢.; Mere.; Plumb.; Sil.
IRIDO-CHOROIDITIS — Kali. iod.; Prun. sp.; Sil.
IRIS — Prolapse: Ant. s. a.; Physost.
IRITIS — Remedies in general: Aron.; Ars; Bell.; Ced.;
Cimnab: Clem.; Dub.; Euphras ; Ferr. p.; Gels.; Grind.;
Tep ; Tod ; Kah bich.; Kali iod.; Merc. c, Mere. s.; Puls.;
Rhus t.; Spig.; Sul.; Syph.; Tellur.; Tercb.; Thuya.
Plastic -lcon.; Bry.; Cinnab.; Hep.; Merc. c.; Rhus t.;
huya
Rheumatic —- Arn.; Bry.; Clem.; Colch ; Euphras.; Formica;
abt bich ; Kal.; Led; Merc. c.; Rhus t.; Spig; Tereb.;
hiya.
Serous —- Apis; Ars.; Bry.; Ced.; Gels.; Merc. c.; Merc.;

Spi.

Syphilitic -- Asaf ; Aur.; Cinnab.: Clem.; TIod.; Kali bich.;
Kah 10d.; Merc. c.; Mere. cy.; Merc. i. fil.; Nit. ac., Sul;
Thuya.

Traumatic — Acon.; Arn.; Bell.; Ham.; Ted.; Rhus t.

Tuberculous — 4rs.; Kali bich.; Sul.; Syph.; Tub.

LACHRYMAL SAC —Blenorrhe@a: Ant. t.; Calc. c; Calend.;
Hep., Merc. d.; Nat. m.; Petrol; Puls.; Sil.; Stann.

Dacryo-cystitis -- Apis. Fluor ac.; Hep: Mod., Mere;
Petrol ; Puls.; Sul; Stann.

Duct closed, from cold, exposure — Calc. c.

Duct, stricture — Nat. m.

Duct, swollen —Graph.; Sil.

Epiphora — Calc. c.; Graph; Hep.; Merc. per.; Mere. s.3
Nat. m.; Scilla; Sil; Tongo. See Lachrymation.

Fistula lachrymalis — Cai. c.; Caust.; Fluor, ac; Wach.
Merc. c.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac; Petrol; Phos; Phyt.; Si
Stann.; Sul.

LACHRYMATION -- Acon.; Antipyr; Apis; Ars; Ars. m.
Aur; Cale. c; Caust; Cepa, Con.; Engen. 3., Euphras.
Guarea; Ipec; Kal tod.; Lyc.; Merc. c.; Merc. per.
Mere s; Nat. ars., Nat. m., Phos.; Phyt.; Pals; Rhu
1; Sabad.; Sang. n.; Scilla; Sul; Sticta; Succin.; Sul
Taxus

Acrid, burning, hot ~— Apis: Ars.; Cod ; Eugen. j.; Euphras..
Graph. ; Kak tod; Kreos ; Merc. ¢., Naph.; Nat. m.; Rhus

t.; Sul.

Bland -Cepa; Puls.

MODALITIES — Relief in open air: Cepa.

Worse at night —- Apis.

Worse from cold application — Sanic.

Worse trom conghing — Euphias.; Nat. m.

Worse fiom eating -—O!. an.

Worse from toreign bodies in eyes, cold wind, reflection
from snow — Acon.

Worse in morning early — Calc. c.

Worse in open air — Cale. c.; Colch.; Lyc.; Phos.; Sanic.;
il.

LAGOPHTHALMOS — Physost.
824 EYES

Op.; Osm.; Phos., Physost.; Prun. sp.; Rhus t.; Spig.;
Supraren, cxt.
HYPOPION —Crot t.; Hep.; Merc. ¢.; Mere.; Plumb.; Sil.
IRIDO-CHOROIDITIS — Kali. iod.; Prun. sp.; Sil.
IRIS — Prolapse: Ant. s. a.; Physost.
IRITIS — Remedies in general: Aron.; Ars; Bell.; Ced.;
Cimnab: Clem.; Dub.; Euphras ; Ferr. p.; Gels.; Grind.;
Tep ; Tod ; Kah bich.; Kali iod.; Merc. c, Mere. s.; Puls.;
Rhus t.; Spig.; Sul.; Syph.; Tellur.; Tercb.; Thuya.
Plastic -lcon.; Bry.; Cinnab.; Hep.; Merc. c.; Rhus t.;
huya
Rheumatic —- Arn.; Bry.; Clem.; Colch ; Euphras.; Formica;
abt bich ; Kal.; Led; Merc. c.; Rhus t.; Spig; Tereb.;
hiya.
Serous —- Apis; Ars.; Bry.; Ced.; Gels.; Merc. c.; Merc.;

Spi.

Syphilitic -- Asaf ; Aur.; Cinnab.: Clem.; TIod.; Kali bich.;
Kah 10d.; Merc. c.; Mere. cy.; Merc. i. fil.; Nit. ac., Sul;
Thuya.

Traumatic — Acon.; Arn.; Bell.; Ham.; Ted.; Rhus t.

Tuberculous — 4rs.; Kali bich.; Sul.; Syph.; Tub.

LACHRYMAL SAC —Blenorrhe@a: Ant. t.; Calc. c; Calend.;
Hep., Merc. d.; Nat. m.; Petrol; Puls.; Sil.; Stann.

Dacryo-cystitis -- Apis. Fluor ac.; Hep: Mod., Mere;
Petrol ; Puls.; Sul; Stann.

Duct closed, from cold, exposure — Calc. c.

Duct, stricture — Nat. m.

Duct, swollen —Graph.; Sil.

Epiphora — Calc. c.; Graph; Hep.; Merc. per.; Mere. s.3
Nat. m.; Scilla; Sil; Tongo. See Lachrymation.

Fistula lachrymalis — Cai. c.; Caust.; Fluor, ac; Wach.
Merc. c.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac; Petrol; Phos; Phyt.; Si
Stann.; Sul.

LACHRYMATION -- Acon.; Antipyr; Apis; Ars; Ars. m.
Aur; Cale. c; Caust; Cepa, Con.; Engen. 3., Euphras.
Guarea; Ipec; Kal tod.; Lyc.; Merc. c.; Merc. per.
Mere s; Nat. ars., Nat. m., Phos.; Phyt.; Pals; Rhu
1; Sabad.; Sang. n.; Scilla; Sul; Sticta; Succin.; Sul
Taxus

Acrid, burning, hot ~— Apis: Ars.; Cod ; Eugen. j.; Euphras..
Graph. ; Kak tod; Kreos ; Merc. ¢., Naph.; Nat. m.; Rhus

t.; Sul.

Bland -Cepa; Puls.

MODALITIES — Relief in open air: Cepa.

Worse at night —- Apis.

Worse from cold application — Sanic.

Worse trom conghing — Euphias.; Nat. m.

Worse fiom eating -—O!. an.

Worse from toreign bodies in eyes, cold wind, reflection
from snow — Acon.

Worse in morning early — Calc. c.

Worse in open air — Cale. c.; Colch.; Lyc.; Phos.; Sanic.;
il.

LAGOPHTHALMOS — Physost.
EYES 825

MEIBOMIAN GLANDS—Swollen: 4th; Bad; Ing., Graph.;
Hlep.; Puls.; Rhus t. See Blepharitis.

OCULAR MUSCLES — Contracted spasmodically: gar. ; Cic.;
Physost., Strych.

Ocular muscles, pain — Carbo v; C1m: Onos. See Pain.

Ocular muscles, paralysis: .\:g. n., Bell;  Canst.,  Con.;
Teuphras ; Gels. lyos.; Lach.; Oxytr.; Phos.; Physost ,
Rhus t., Ruta; Santon.;. Senega.

Ocular muscles, paralysis, extrinsic —Gels.; Phos.

Ocular muscles, paralysis, intrinsic - Alum.; Con.; Lach.;
Nat m; Onosm; Ruta

Ocular muscles, paralysis superior rectus — S-nega.

Ocular muscles, paralysis, weak -- Gels, Lach; Nat m3
Physost ; Ruta, Tilia.

OCULAR TENSION — Decreased: \piimvyv Ced, Fser.; Nat
m.; Osm ; Prun. ep.; Ran b, Rhod

Increased - Scc Glaucoma.

OPHTHALMIA — Catarrhal: wteon, Am om; ‘Apis: Ars;
Bel; Cham; Dule; Euphras, Gels, fale bich , Merc.
e. Mere; Nux vi: Puls, Sul.
Chronic -4/um., Arie on: Ars: Con, Euphras.; Graph ;
Kali bich ; yc. Pser, Sep.; Sua: Zine m
Follicular, granular - Au omut.; Euphias.: Jequir.: Puls
Gonorrhoeal (neonatorum) - con, 17g. 1.3 Bell; Cale
6.3 Can s. Mep. Kalio+ Vere. os Ven. pro aub, Men,
Nit. ac.; Puls , Rhus t; Thuya. .
Gonorrhceal, constitutional —.\con ;_Clem.; Nit. ac.; Puls.
Purulent — Apis; 4irg. un, Calend: Grind.; Hep., Mere. c.;
Mere. pr. tub.; Plumb; Puls; Ahus t.
Rheumatic -—— Acon.; Bell.: Bry, Cale c.; Caust.; Clem.;
Colch ; Kuphras.; Ix, Kah dich, leds Lath cs Tae,
Mere, ce; Merc; Nux vi; Phyt: Rhus t, Sil; Spig.,
Sul.
Scrofulous -~ Ztinop:, Zthiops antum.; -Uth.; Apis; Arg.
n.; Ars.; Ars. iod, Aur.. Aur. mut., Bar. ¢. Bar. iod ,
Bell.; Cale. c.; Cale. 10d., Can 5.: Cist.; Clem.: Coch
lear.; Colch; Con; Euphras., Graph., Hep, lod, Kah
bich ; Merce. c. Mere. diz Mere mt, Mere or. rub;
Nat. m; Nit. a.; Psor., Puls., Rhus t., Serophul.; Sil ;
Sul; Thuya; Viola tr.; Zinc s.
Senile -- Alum.
Sympathetic — Bul!., Bry.; Calend.; Mere.; Rhus t.; Sil.
. See Conjunctivitis,

Syphilitic — Apis, Asaf ; Gels.: Kali iod.; Mere. ¢.; Nit. ac.
OPTICAL — Hyperesthesia: — Chrysar.
OPTIC DISKS — Hyperemic, retinal vessels enlarged: — Bell.;

Onosm.
Optic disks, pallor, visual field contracted, retinal vessels
shrunken — Acetan

OPTIC NERVE — Atrophy:  Agar.; Arg. n.; Atoxyl; Carbon.
s.; lodof.; Nux v.; Phos., Santon.; Strych. nit.; Tab.
Inflammation (neuritis) — Apis; Ars.; Bell.; Kali iod.; Merc.
c.;,Nux v.; Picr. ac; Plumb. m.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Santon.,
Tab.; Thyr.
Neuritis, choked --- Rell.; Bry.; Dub.; Gels.; Helleb.; Nux

y.; Puls, Ver v.
826 EYES

Neuritis, descending — Ars.; ; Cupr. m.; Merc. c
Faralysis —Nux v.; Oxytr.; Phos. ac.
ORBITS — Bony tumors: Kali iod

Cellulitis — Apis, Hep.; Keli iod.; Phyt ; Rhus t.; Sil.

Injuries— Acon.; rn.; Ham.; Symph yt.

Pain around— Apis; Asaf. ; Aur, m.; Bell.; Cinnab.; Hep.;
Ifydrocot.; Ilex; Plat.; Plumb. m. 5 Spig.

Pain, deep in- -tloe, Gels... Mere. c: Phos.; Phyt.; Plat.;
Ruta, Sarrac.; Spig.; Stann.; Upas. See Pain.

Periostitis - Asaf.; Aur.; Kah wd.; Merc.; Sil.

PAIN: LOCATION — Ciliary body Ars.; Ced.; Chenop.;
Chrom, oxy.; Cim., Cannab, Commoci.; Crot. t., Gels.;
Pais; Phos.; Plant.; Prun. sp., Rhod.; Spig.; Thuya.

Eyeballs —- -{con.; Alfal.; Am. br.; Asaf , Aur.; Azar.; Bapt.;
ficll., Bry.; Ced.; Chel; Chimap., Cim., Cinch.; Clem.,
Coce ; Col; Commocl.; Con.; Crot. t., Eser.; Lup. perf.,
Liuphras., Gels, Gtind; Guarea, Hep; Indol; Jabor.;
Kah sod.; Lycop.; Menthol; Merc. ¢, Nat m.; Naccol s.;
Nit. ac.; Oleand.; Onosm.; Osm., Paris; Passif ;  Plat.;
Phos; Phos ac.; Physost.; Prun. sp., Puls.; Rhod; Rhus
t., Ruta, Spig., Staph. ; Symphyt.; Syph. ’ ‘Tereh ; Thuy.
Upas; Viola re

Orbits — loc; + spicrs: > _«lsaf ; Aur, m.; Chel; Cinrab ;
Crot. t.; bein Ikx, Kah sod, Menthol, Phos , Ruta,
Spig.; Ther.; Upas

Supra-orbital ~~ Asaf.; Bry.; Carb. ac.;  Ced., Chin. s.;
Dub.; Gels ; Kali Bich. ; Meh.; ; Menthol; Merc. c.; Plat.;
Ruta: Spy. Thaya

TYPE — Aching, sore: Msc ; Alfal.; i. Ae} Bapt.; Bry., Cim.;
Eup. Per}, , Euphras ; ; Fiescr.; fam.; ; Led; Lept.;
Menthol; Nat. m.; Niccol 8.3 Ne ac. Onosm.; Radium;
Rhus t.: Ruta: Sep.: Spiq.

Boring -— ‘Asaf., Aur, Col., Crot. , Hep.; Mere, ¢.

Bruised -- Arn, Au. mur ; Ce 3 Cup. m.; Gels.; Hep.;
Nat. m.

Burning, smarting ~--hoon, Am gummi; 4drs.. Asaf.,
Carbo v.; Cepa; Clem.; £uphras.; llex aq, Indol; Iod ;
Jabor.; Lyc: Merc c.; Nat. m.; Phos.; Ran. b; Rute,

Si

Enlarged feeling, bursting — Am. br.;  Bry.; Cim; Com
mocl,, Paris; Prun. sp. Spy

leuralgic — Ars., Asaf.: Bell. ; "Ced.; Chin. s.; Crm.; Cinch.;
Cinnab ; Col.; ‘Commocl.; Crot_t 3 Gels.; Kali iod’; Meh;
Mez.; Osm ; Phos.; Physost ; Prun. sp., Rhod.; Spig.

Periodically, intermittent - - Ars.; Asaf.; Ced.; Chin. 6.;
Cinch., Sprg.

Piercing, ’ penetrating — Anis; Aur.; Mallef ; Rhus ¢.

Pressing inwards, as if retracted — Aur. mur.; Crot. ti;
Hcp, Oleand.; Parts, Phes, ac.

ressing outwards — Bry., Cim., Coce.; Col.3 Commocl.;
Guarca; Lycop., Merc. c.; Passif.; Spig.

Pressive, crushing --Acon., Asaf.: | Aur. mur.; _Cinch.;
Clem; Crot t; Cupr., Euphras.; Hep.; Menthol; Nit. ac.;
Oleand ; Parts, Phos. ac, Phos.: Prin sp.; Ran. b.;
Rhus t.; Ruta, Sep; Spig.

Sensitive to touch — con. , Arn; iArs.; Aur.; Bell; Bry.;

im., Clem.: Kup. perf.; Ham.; Hep; Lept; Rhus t.;
Sil; Spiy. Tauya. See "Aching
EYES 827

Shooting, stitching, darting, cutting —.\con , Asaf.; Bry.;
Cale c; Chimap.; Cim.; Citnab., Clem; Col, Euphras.;
Graph.; Helleb.; Hep.; Aah c., Mere c.; Not. ac., Physost.;
Prun. sp; Rhod.; Rhus t.; Sil; Spig.

Splinter-like -.\pis, Aur.; Hep.; Med.; Merc.; Nit. ac.;
Sul; Thuya.

Stinging — Afis; Euphias ; [lep.; Kali c; Puls.; Thuya

Strained, stiff feeling —- Guatac , Jabor.; Kal.; Med.; Nat.
m., Onosm.; Rhus t.; Kuta.

Tearing -- Ars; Asaf.: dur. mur, Bell ; Chel.; Colch.; Crot.
t.; Guarea; Mere. «3 Puls ; Sil

Throbbing — Asat.; Bell, Bry.; Cim.; Hep.; Mere; Ther.

MODALITIES — Aggravation: At night: irs, Asaf., Cinnab.;
Con.; Wuphras.; Hep.; Kah 10d , Lyc.; Mere. c.; Mere. s.,
Puls.; Rhus t.; Sep.; Spig.; Syph., Thuya.

Before a storm — Rhod

From closing eyes —- S:1

From cold air —~ Asar.; Clem ; Hep, Mag p

From damp, cold, rainy weather - Merc «, Rius ¢, Sprig.

From glare of light - Asar., Con.; Merc,

From looking down —- Nat. m

From looking up -— Chel.

From lying down-- [ell

From motion - Ais.; Bry., Crot 13 Grind.: Indol; Kal.;
Rhus t; Spig.

From motion, or use of eyes — Arg. n., Arn; Bry., Cim.;
Kuphras.; Kal. Nat. m., Onosm.; Physost ; Puls.; Rhus
t.; Ruta, Sprg.

From sunlight — .\sa1 ; Merc.

From sunrise to sunset - Kal.; Nat m

From touch — Ary, /ie,., Phos ; Plant.

From warmth -.\rg n.: Commocl.; Puls.; Sul.; Thuya.

Worse on left side — Venthol; Onusm.; Spig.; Thes.

Worse on right side --Bell., Ced.; Chel., Comimocl.; kal.;
Mag. p., Prun. sp.; Ran. b.; Ruta.

AMELIORATION — Cold air, applications: Arg. n., Asar.,

als.

Darkness —- Con.; Lil. t.

Lying down on back - Puls.

Motion - Kali 10d.

Pressure —-- \saf ; Chel.; Chin s.; Col.; Con.; Lil ¢.

« Rest — \saf.; Bry ; Cim.

Touch, pressure Asaf.; Chel.

Warmth -— Ars., Hep.; Mag. p.; 7'huya.

PANNUS --— Apis; dur. mur; Chin. oau.; Hep.; Kali bich.;
Mere. 1. r.: Nit. ac. See Cornea.

PAN-OPHTHALMITIS ~— Ilep.; Rhus t

PERCEPTIVE POWER lost — Kali p.

PHOTOPHOBIA --— -fcon.; Agn; Ail; Ant. t.; Apis; Arg. n.;
Ars., Ars. m.; Asar.; Aur. mur.; Bell.; Benzot; Cale. c.;
Calc. p.; Cepa; Cim.; Clem.; Con.; Croc.; Elaps; Euphras ,
Graph.; Hep.; Ign,; Kah c.; Lil. t.; Lye.; Mere. ¢.; Merc.
s.; Nux v.; Op.; Phos ac.; Phos.; Psor.; Puls.; Rhus t.;
Scrophul.; €il.; Spig.; Sul, Ther.; Zinc,
828 EYES

PTERYGIUM -Am_ br.; Apis; Cale. ¢.; Can. s.; (uarea;
Lach ; Ratanh , Spig.s Sul., Tellur , Zine. m.

PUPILS—Contracted (myosis): \con: Cina: Fser., Gels.;
lgn.; Todof., Lomic.; Mere c; Morph; Op; Oxytr.;
Phos; Phvsost.; Piloc; Solan n.

Dilated (mydriasis) -Acetan., var; Agn; Ail.; Atrop;
Bell.; Cale ¢ 3 Camph.; Cre, Cocame, Dig.; Dub; Gels.;
Glon : Tlelleb.; Hyos ; Jodof., Nit ac; Nux m.;
(inanthe, See; Stram.; Ver. v.; Zine, m

Insensible, poor reaction - Bill , Benzol; Camph.; Cic.; Gels.;
Velleb , MWydroe. ac.; Hyos.; Laur; Nit. ac.; Op, Phos.;
DPiloe , Stram.; Zine,

RETINA — Anemia: Iyth. c.

Apoplexy (hemorrhage from, traumatism, cough, etc.)
- Acon : vien , Bell.; Cret, Ham., Tach , led, Nat. sal;
Phos., Symphyt

Artery, spasm Nux v

Congestion --- Acon; .dur., Bell., Carbon s,, Dub.; Ferr.
p; Gels, Phos.; Puls.; Santon.

Congestion, from cardiac disease Cact.

Congesion, from light, artificial, brilliant - Glon.

Congestion, from mentrual suppression — Bell ; Puis.

Congestion, from overuse of eyes - A/a, Santon.

Detachment -.!7 oo mur, Dig.; Gels, Naph; Piloc.

Edema -— [jis, Bell ; Canth ; Kal ied : Phos

Hyperesthesia (optical) -- Pell, Crim, Con.; Lil. t.; Ma-
crat; Nava, Ov. ac., Phos, Strych.

Inflammation (retinitis), albuminuric and chronic — Crot ;
Gels.y Kal; Were ec.) Nat sal, Phos; Phamb om., Sal. ae.

Inflammation, apoplectic -— Glon ; Tach

Inflammation, leukemic — Nat. s; Thuya.

Inflammation, pigmentary —- Nux v ; Phos.

Inflammation, proliferating — Kali i0od.; Thuya,

Inflammation, punctata albescens — Bel) ; Kali iod ; Merc.
c.3 Mere i. 1.3; Naph; Sul.

Inflammation, simple and serous — .f{ur., Bell; Bens. dinit ,
Biy.; Dub., Gels.; Mere... Pier. ac.; Puls ; Santon,

Inflammation, syphilitic ---Jod : Kali tod

Injuries — Acon,; 4rn, Bell.; Ham., Lach; Ted.; Phos.

Thrombosis and degeneration — IJain.; Phos.

SCLEROTICA — Degeneration: Avwi.: Rar. mur.; Plumb
Ecchymosis -- 4rn , Bell.; Cham.; Ham; Lach; Led.; Nux
v.: Senega.
Inflammation, deep (scleritis) —-.4con.;) Ars.; | Aur. mur.;
Exsyng. aq.; Hep.; Kal.; Merc. c.; Sep; Spig ; Thuya.
Inflammation, superficial (episcleritis) Acon.; Bell.; Bry.;
Kali sod.; Merc. ¢.3 Rhus t., Tereb.; Thuya.
STRABISMUS (squinting) -~ Alumen, <Alum.: Apis;  Apoc.;
el, Benz. dint; Cale pi Cer Cina: Cupr ae; Cyel.;
Gels , Hyos.; Nux v.; Santon., Sec.; Spig.; Stram.; Tab.;
ate,
Convergent — Cyci ; Izhor.
Dependent on convulsions — Bell.; Cic ; Hyos.
Dependent on injuries — Cic.
Dependent on worms — Bel).; Cina, Cycl.; Hyos.; Mere.;
Santon., Spig.
EYES 829

Divergent — Morph; Nat. sal

VISION — AMAUROSIS (blindness): Acon.; Apis. fur om.,
Beu.; Cale 3 Caust., Chin. s.. Cinch; Con, Cycl 5
Dule, Gels, Hep.; Hyos . Manein.; Mere ; Mormord ,
Naph; Nat m, Nux m, Nux ov; Phos.; Plomb ac,
Santon.; Sep.; Sil; Stiam.; Stiych.; Tab.;  Vanad.;
4ine om

Colors—- Bens dent; Carbon s ; Physost.; Santon.

Day — Acon.; Bothrops, Castor.; Lyc, Phos.; Ran. b., Sil.

Hysterical -- Vhos.: Plat. Sep.

Night - Bell., Cadm. ».3 Cinch : I[elleb ; Hep.; Hyos ; Tye;
Nux v.; Vhysost; Puls., Strych.

Retro-bulbar neuritis --- Tudot

Tobacco - Nui @v., Phos.; Piloc., Plumb. ac.

AMBLYOPIA—(blurred, weak vision): .\con.; dgar.: {nae ,
Ain; .dur, Bapt., Bens dinit., Caust, Cainch.; Con.;
Coleh.; Cvel, Dig. Flaps, Iiser.; Euphras.: Gels, Hep
Jabor., Nah oc, Wah p, Val ts. hath. chlor, Lye.
Mag. p.; Naph.; Net om, Nux im; Nux vii Onosnn, Ox.
azn; Osm, Phos. ac, Phes., Vhysost., Piloc ; lPuls.;
Rhus t. Auta, Santon, Senega; Sep, Siu, Stront.; Tab.,
‘Thuya; Titan . Zine) om .

Objects appear as looking through mist or veil —
Agar, Cale c. Caust., Cima, vroe, Gyels Gels,, Kal
ec, Tal t., S/ermornd., Nat, om, Phos, Plumb, Pals ;
Ruta, Sep.; Tab.

Objects appear elongated — Bell.

Objects appear inverted -- Dell ; Guarva. .

Objects appear too large —- Bov.; Ilep ; W)0s.; Niccol.; Nux
m; Ox. ac, -

Objects appear too smali Tanz. dimt. Glon,; Nicot.;
Plat., Stram.

Retinal images persist —- Jabor

When reading, eyes easily fatigued —-.\mmon.; Cale. 3
Cina; Jabor.; Nat. ars; Nat. mi: Phos.. Ruia, Sep.: Sul

When reading, eyes feel pressed asunder or outward,
relieved by cold bathing -- Asar.

When reading, letters appear red - Phos.

When reading, letters disappear —- Cic . Cocc

When reading, letters run together — /var., Bell.; Cale. cs
Can ind.; Cina, Cinch; Con.; Elaps, Fer, ifyos, Lye,
Nat. m., Sil

ASTHENOPIA — (eye-strain, with spasm of accommoda-
tion): .fyar, Aitum; Am oc; Am, guttr, Api; Arg. n;

. Arn; Artem; Dell, Carbon os. Canst, Cam. Cina;
Croc; Gels, lyn. Jubor Kab ce: Kal; Lac f., Macrot ;
Net m., Niccel, sul; Nicot.; Nux vj Onosm.; Paris;
Phos, Physost, Rhod, Ruta, Santon; Senega, Sep.,
Stront.

External recti — Cupr. ac; Gls

Internal recti -— Jaboi.: Mu-car.; Nat. m.; Physost.; Piloc,

Myopic — Fsei.: Lil. t

ASTIGMATISM -- Gels... Lil. t.; Physest.

DIPLOPIA — (double vision): gar; Aur; Bell; Cic ; Con;
Cyel.; Dig.; Gels, Gins.: Hyos ; Mat. mi; Nut. ac.;
Oleand.; Orosm: Phos ; VPhy-ost.; Plumb.; Sec.; Stram ;
Sulphon.; Sul; Ver. v.°
830 EYES

HEMIOPIA-—- Calc +, Glon; Hep., Lith c; Lyc.; Mur. ac,

Nat. m.; 7itan.

Left-half -— Cale c, Lith. «, Lye.

Lower-half — Aw., D:git

Vertical —- Ferr p; Lith. c., Morph.; Mur. ac; Ttan.

HYPERMETROFIA — Cale. «3 Con.; Jabor.; Nat. m.; Petrol.
ep; Si

MYOPIA — Acon., Agar.; Aur. mur.; Bell; Carbon. s.
Euphras ; Gels.; Tal. t.; Nit. ac.; Phos.; Physost., Piloc.
Viola od.

OPTICAL ILLUSIONS — (chromopsia, photopsia): Black
before eyes: Agai.; Atrof , Bell ; Carho v, Carbon. s
Cinch ; Cycl.; Dig, Lach ; Lye ; Mag c.; Mag. ps Mere.
Nat m; Phos.; Physost.; Sep., Stront.; Tab., Zine.

Blue before eyes -— Crot.; Pri cers Tail p.

Confusion of colors —~bill, Cale. c.3 Croc; Mere.; Puls.
Ruta; Staph.; Stram.

Flashes, flames, flickering —- Agar: Aloe; Bell, Cale. fi
Caust ; Clem; Cycl., Glon.; Tlep ; Ign.; Ins, Lyc.; Phos.
Vhysost., Puls ; Scnega; Viola od.

Gray —- Arg. n. js Conv.; Guarea.

Green — Dig., Osm., Phos

Halo around light — Bell; Chloral; Hyos.; Sul.

Objects appear white — Chioral.

Objects, brilliant, fantastic, colored, fiery- 4nhal., — Aur.:
Bell., Cinch: Cyel., Nat m.; Sep,

Red before the eyes — .\ntipyr.; Anis; Bell; Dub; Hep.;
Phos , Stront.

Sparks, stars — Aur; Bell; Cale. fl; Caust; Croce; Cyel.,
Glun.; Lye.; Naph; Sil; Strych

Spots (musce# volitantes) -— 4gor; Anac; .ffrop; Aur;
Carbo v.; Caust., Cinch., Colch., Con.; Crel, Cyprip,
Kali c: Mel; Alerc.; Nit. ac; Nur v.; Phos., Physost.,
Sep; Sil; Sul.; Tab.

Yellow before eyes — Aloc; Canth; Cina; Digitox: Santon

VITREOUS OPACITIES — diffused: Ham.; Hep; Kali iod,
Mere. c; Mere. 1. 7.3 Thuoya

Turbid -- Cholest.; Kali lod s " Phos; Prun. sp; Senega;
Solan. n.; Sul.
EARS

AUDITORY NERVE — Torpor: Chenop.

AURICLE — (external ear): Burning, as if frost-bitten —
Aga; Caust.; Sang

ERUPTIONS — Remedies in general: nt. c.; Bar. c.; Cale
ce; Cale s.; Graph., Lyc.; Mes; Petrol; Rhus t.; Tellur.

Acne — Calc 5s

Eczema around-- Ars ; Arundo; Bov.; Clem.; Crot. t.; Graph. ;
Tiep., Kali om.: Mesz., Oleand.; Petrol.; ’ Psor.; Rhus t.;
Scropbul ; Tellus

Erysipelas --- Apis, Bell; Rhus t., Rhus v.

Fissures — Cale. a; Grap hh.

Frost-bites — Agar, “ips, Ball; Rhus ¢

Intertrigo —~ [’ctiol

Herpes Cistus; Graph; Psor., Rhus t ; Sch, Tellers

Moist, oozing — Ant. c., Calc. 3; Graph ; Hep.; Mez.;
Petrol, Psor

Pustules - Ars., Jlep., Pesor.

Seabs, scurfs-— Chiycar.: Hep.; Psor.

Glands, swollen, painful, around - - Bar. ce; Bell.; Cale. ¢.,;
Caps.; Giaph ; Tod.; Alerc.

Itching ——- Ayar., Ars; Hep.; Nat Pi Sul. tod.; Tub,

Lobe, eruption on - - Bar. c.

Lobe, ulceration of ving hole - - Stann

Numbness -May c.; Plat.; Verbasc.

Pain, tearing, with to hi — Berb. v.

Red, raw, sore — Graph ; Petrol.; Sul.

Red, swollen -- 4con., Agar. ; Nnac , Apis; Bell., Cinch.;
Graph ; Hep , Kali ich. ; ; Medusa; Merc.; Puls.; Rhus ¢.,
Scrophul.; ul,

Sensitive to touch -- Arn.; Bell.; Bry.; Caps.; Cinch; Yerr,
p., Hep.; Psor., Same.; Sep.

CERUMEN -— Carbo v, Caust.; Con.; Elaps; Graph.; Lach ;
Puls; Sep.; Spong.

DEAFNESS — HARDNESS OF HEARING — Remedies in
general: Agar., Agraph.: Ambra, Am._¢.; Arm; Ars
iod ; Bar. c.: Bar. mur.; Bell.; Cale. ¢.; Cale, fl.; 2 nd.
Carbo an.; Carbon s.; Caust.: Cheiranth.; Chenof- ae
s; Cmch,, Con; Dig 5 Dule.; Elaps; Terr. BE; Perr. picr.;
Graph.; Hep.; Hiydr.j ; Hydrobr. ac.; Iod.; Kali ars.; Kali
C3 Kal: m_, Lob. infl.; Lyc., Mang. ac. * Mere, d.; "Mere.
s: Mez; Nat. c; Nat. sal.; Nit. ac.; Petrol.; Phos. ac.;
Phos., Psor.; Puls.; Rham. c.; Sal. ac; ; Sang. n.; Sep.;
Su.; Tellur.; Thiosin.; Verbasc.; Viola od.

CAUSE — Abuse of Mercury: Hep.; Nit. ac. ,

Adenoids and hypertrophied tonsile — Agraph. ; Aur.; Bas,
ce; Calc. p.; Merc.; Nit. ac.;

Alternates with sensibility. of sar ad 7

Apoplexy — Arn.; Bell. aust.; Hyos.; Rhus t.

Bone-conduction, deficient, or absent — Chenop.

Catarrh (eustachian, middle ear)— Ars, iod.; Asar.; Cal-
coreas; Caust.; Gels; Grana.; Hep.; Hvdr.; Jod.; Kali
832 EARS

bich ; Kal m., Kali_s 3 Mang ac; Menthol; Merc. d.;
Mere. s, Petrol, Puls, Rosa d.; Sang.; Sep; Sii.;
Thiosia.

Cerebral — Chcnop.; Mur. ac

Cold exposure -  .\con.; Kali m.; Vise. a.

Concussion -— Ain., Chin. s

Damp weather — Mang. ac.

Discharge suppressed or eczema — Lob. infil.

Eruption of scalp, suppressed — \z

Human voice, difficult to hear-- Calc. c.; Chenop.; Ign.;
Phos., Sil; Sul.

Infectious diseases —~ Ain.; Baft., Gels., Uep.; Lyc.; Pe-
trol; Phos ; Puls. ‘

Nervous exhaustion, and nervous origin — //mbra, Anac.;
Aw. Bell; Caust.; Chin, s.; Cinch.; Gels ; Ign.; Lach.;
Phos, ac; Phos; Plat; ab.; Val.

Nutritional disturbance, in growing children ~ Calc. c;

ae or ry

Old age — Kali m.; Mere d.;_ Phos .

Rheumatico-gouty diathesis— Fcrr. picr.; Ham.; Kali iod ;
Teds Sil; Sul; Vise a.

Sclerotic condition of conducting media —- Feir. p:cr.; Thio-
sin.

Scrofulous diathesis — Zthiops, Calc c.; Merc.; Mez.; Sil,

"

Sounds, low toned -- Chcnop.

Syphilis — Kieos

Working in water —«Celc c.

Aggravated before menses — Ferr. vcr.

Ameliorated from noise, riding in cars —Calend.; Graph.;

Nit. ac,

-EUSTACHIAN TUBES — (catarrh or closure): Alfal.;
aAlum.; Bar. im. Calcareas, Caps.; Canust., Ferr. 10d.; Ferr
p; Gels.; Graph.; UWep.; Alydr.; lod.; Kali bich.; Kah
chlor ; Kal m.; Wach.; Lob. ce1.; Menthol; gMferc. d;
Mere. Nit. ac.; Penthor.; Phyt.; (uls,;,Rosa d.; Sang. n.;
Si.; Vise. a

Eustachian tube inflamed, sub-acute, great pain -— Caps

Eustachian tube, tickling inducing swallowing, cough —
Gels.; Nux v.; Sil.

EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL — Boils, pimples: Bell.; Calc.
picr ; Hep.; Merc. s., Pier. ac., Stl; Sul.

Burning -— Ars; Arundo; Cafs., Sang.; Strych.

Digging and scratching into — Cina; Psor.

Dryness — Cale. picr.; Carbo v; Ferr. picr.; Graph.; Nux v.;
Peuol.; Verbasc.

Exostoses --- Cale. fl.; Hekla, Kah iod.

Feels, as if distended by air — Mez.; Puls.

Fissures — Graph.; Petrol.

Inflammation and pain — dcon.; Apis: Ars. iod.; Bell ; Bor.:
Brachygl ; Cal, pice: Cham; Ferr. p.; Hep.; Kali bich.;
Kali m. Merc. §.; Nit. ac; Psor.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Tellur.

Itching -— Alon., Anac.; Cale. c.; Caust.; Hep.; Kali bich.;
Kah c. Psor.; Puls.; Sabad.; Sep; Sil; Sub; Tellur.;
Viola od

Polypoid excrescenses, granulations — Alum.: Calc. ct;
Cate, rod.; Calc. p.; Formica; Kali bich.; Kali iod.; Kal
EARS 833

m; Mere. s,; Nit. ac.; Phos.; Sang., Sil.; Staph.; Teucr.;
Thuya.
Scales, epithelial, exfoliated, with scurfy accumulation —
Cale pier.
Sensation, as if drop of water in left ear —Acon.
Sensation, as if heat emanated from-— £th.; Caust.
Sensation, as if obstructed— Aith.; Anac.; <Asar.; Carbon.
s: Cham.; Crot.; Glon.; Mere.; Nit. ac; Puls.; Verbase.
Sensation, as if open teo much -— Mez.
Sensitive to air, touch— Ars.; Bell.; Bor.; Caps.; Chom.;
Ferr. p.; Hep., Mere.; Mez.; ; Nux’ v.; ; Petrol.; Tellur.
HYPERSENSITIVE — to noises, sounds, voices: -— Acon ;
Anhal.; Asar.; Aur.; Bell.; Bor.; Chenop.; ; Cim.; Cinch. ;
Coff.; ¥erz. p: Ign.; Iod.; Lach.; Mag. m.; Nat. c.; Nit.
ac.; Nur v. é Op.; Petrol; "Phos. ac. 5 ; Plant; Puls.; ‘dang. ;
Sep.; Sil; Spig.; Tereb.; Ther.

LABYRINTH — Bloody, serous effusion, in: Chenop.

Inflamed (otitis interna)-- Aur.; Kal 10d.; Merc. i. r.

MASTOID FROCESS — Caries: dur, Caps., Fluor. ac; Nit.
ac; Si

Inflammation (myringitis) —- Am. picr.; Asaf.; dur.; Bell ;
Benz. ac.; Canth.; Caps.; Hep.; Mag. p.; Menthol; Onosm.: ;
Oniscus; Tellur.

MEMBRANA TYMPANI — Calcareous deposits: Calc. fi

Inflamation (myringitis)-— 4con , | Atrop.; Bell.; Bry.;
Cinch : icp. See Ottis

Perforated -- Aur.; Calc. c.; Caps; Kali bich.; Mere.; Sil;
Tellur.; Ted. .

Thickened — Ars iod.; Mere. d.; Thiosin.

Thin, white, scaly deposit -— Graph

Ulceration ~ Kal: bich.

wWSSICLES — Caries: —- Asaf.; Aur.; Calc. c.; Caps.; Fluor. ac.;
Hep.; Tod.; Stl.; Syph.
Petrous bone, tender to touch— Caps.; Onosm.
Sclerosis, also petrous portion of temporal bone — Calc. f1.
TYMPANUM (middle ear): Inflammation (otitis):

Catarrhal, acute — Acon.; Bell.; Cham.; Ferr. p.; Gels.;
Hep ; Kali m. ; Mere.; Puls. ; Rhus t.; Sil.

Catarrhal, chronic -- Agat.; Ars.; Bar. m.; Cale. ¢.; Coust.;
Cinch.; Giaph.; Hydr.;: Tod.; Jahor.; ; Kali bich.; Kali iod.; :
Kah m. Mere. d.; Nit. ac.; ; Phos.; Sang.; Teucr. See
Eustachian Tuhes,

Suppurative, acuté (otitis media suppurative, acute) —
Acon.; Ars.; Ars. iod.; Bell.; Bor.; Bov.; Calc. 8.3 Caps.;
Cham.; Ferr. p.; Gels. ; Guaiac ; Hep.; Kali bich.; ali
m.; Merc. s.; Merc. v.; Myrist.; Plant.; Puis.; Sil;
Thiosin

Suppurative, chronic — Athiops: Alum.; Ars. iod.; Aur.;

ar, m.; Cale. c.: Cale. f.; Calc. iod.; Caps.; Caust.;
Chenop.; Elaps; He. Hydr.; Iod.; Koh ’ bich.; Kali iod.;
Kali m.; Kali ali s.; Kino; Lapis alb.: ‘Lye; * Merc.
8.3 Mere. v.; Naja; Nit. ac.; Psor.; Puls.; Sil; Sub; Tel-
lur.; Thuya; Viola od.
TYPE OF DISCHARGE — (otorrhaa): Bloody —Ars.; Ferr.
p.; Hep.: Kali iod.; Merc.; Psor.; Rhus t.; Skook. ch.
834 EARS

Excoriating, thin - d/um., Ais; Ars. 10d.; Calc. iod.; Cale.
p.; Cistus, Jad, Mere; Syph, Tellur.

Muco-purulent, fetid, acrid or bland - /Ethiops; Ars. iod.;
Asaf.; Aur.; Bor; Cale. c.; Cale. s.; Caps.; Carbo v.;
Elaps; Ferr. p.; Greph.; Hep.; Hydr.; Kali bich ; Aah s.,
Kino; Tye: Mere. pr. rub.; Merc. v.; Nat. m.; Psor ;
Puls.; Sil, Sul.; Tellur.; Thuya; Tub.

PAIN (otalgia) on; Antipyr.; Amps; Bell., Bor: Caps :
Cham , Chin. s.3 Coff.; Dule.; Ferr. p., Gels. ;/lep.; lod ;
Kah bich.; Kali rod.; Mag. p.; Menthol; Merc. s, Merc.
v, Naja; Plunt., Puls.; Sang.; Tercb.; Val.; Viola od.;
Viec. a; Verbase.

TYPE — Aching, constant — Caps ; Guatac ; Merc,

Boring -.\m. picr.; Asaf., Aur.; Bell., Caps., Kali iod ;
Si, Spig

Burning -./rs, Caps; Kreos ; Sang.; Sul.

Crawp-like, pressing, piercing —.fna., Cale. c; Cham.;
Kah bieh ; Mere.; Puls

Neuralgic, lancinating, shifting, shooting, paroxysmal —
Acon ; Bell, Caps, Cepa, Cham., Cinch.; Fert. p.; Kalt
ec; Vag fp, Nit. ac; Puls, Stl; Spig., Viola od

Pulsating, throbbing- Acon.; Bell., Cact; Cale. c.; Ferr.
fp, Glon ; Mere. c.; Mere. 5.3 Puls.; Rhus t ; Telfur.

Stinging -.\con, Apis; Caps

Stitching —_ lbor.: Cham, Ferr. pj Hep.; Kah bich.; Kai c,
Merce.; Nit. ac.; Plant., Puls; Viola o

Tearing /tell., Caps.; Cham, Kali bich.; Kali iod.; Merc.
s; Plant.; Puls.

MODALITIES — Ageravation: At night — Acon.; Ars.; Bell.;
Cale p.3 Cham, Dule.; Fert. p., Hep.; Kali 10d.; Alerc :
Pids , Rhus t

From cold air Cale. p ; Caps.; Cham , Hep, Kali m.; Mag
p.; Sang.

Noise Bell; Cham

Pressure, motion Menthol.

Warmth & Acon: Bor.; Cale p.; Cham.; Dule.; Merc.; Nux
v; Puls

Washing face and neck with coid water — Mag. p.

AMELIORATION — During day: <Acon.

From being carried, motion-~ Cham.

From cold applications — Puls.

From motion, covering --- Aut.

From sipping cold water —VPar m.

From warmth — Bell.; Caps.; Cham., Dulc.; Hep.; Afag. p.

In open air — Acon.; Aur; Ferr. p.; Puls,

TINNITUS AURIUM — (noises in ears): Remedies in gen-
eral: idren.; Am. c.; Antipyr.; Ars.; Bar. c; Rar. m;
Bell.; Canchal.; Carbon. s.; Caust.; Chenop.; Chenop. gl.;
Chin, sal; Chin, s.; Cim; Cinch; Cistus dec; Con.,
Digs Ferr. p.3 Ferr, pier.; Gruph.; Hep; Hydr.: Jabor.;
Kali ce; Kah iod.; Kal m.; Kali p.; Lach; Lecith.; Lith
chlor.; Merc.; Mere d.; Nat. m; Nat. sal; Paith.;
Petrol.; Phos; Filoc.; Plat.; Plumb. rmi.; Puls.; Sal. ac.,
Sang ; Sang. n., Sil.; Sulphon.; Sul.; Viole od.

ge -—~Am. c; Anac.; Antipyr.; Bar. m.; Cale. c.: Can-
chal.; Caust.; Chenop., Chin. s.; Cinch.; Dig.; Diose.;

834 EARS

Excoriating, thin - d/um., Ais; Ars. 10d.; Calc. iod.; Cale.
p.; Cistus, Jad, Mere; Syph, Tellur.

Muco-purulent, fetid, acrid or bland - /Ethiops; Ars. iod.;
Asaf.; Aur.; Bor; Cale. c.; Cale. s.; Caps.; Carbo v.;
Elaps; Ferr. p.; Greph.; Hep.; Hydr.; Kali bich ; Aah s.,
Kino; Tye: Mere. pr. rub.; Merc. v.; Nat. m.; Psor ;
Puls.; Sil, Sul.; Tellur.; Thuya; Tub.

PAIN (otalgia) on; Antipyr.; Amps; Bell., Bor: Caps :
Cham , Chin. s.3 Coff.; Dule.; Ferr. p., Gels. ;/lep.; lod ;
Kah bich.; Kali rod.; Mag. p.; Menthol; Merc. s, Merc.
v, Naja; Plunt., Puls.; Sang.; Tercb.; Val.; Viola od.;
Viec. a; Verbase.

TYPE — Aching, constant — Caps ; Guatac ; Merc,

Boring -.\m. picr.; Asaf., Aur.; Bell., Caps., Kali iod ;
Si, Spig

Burning -./rs, Caps; Kreos ; Sang.; Sul.

Crawp-like, pressing, piercing —.fna., Cale. c; Cham.;
Kah bieh ; Mere.; Puls

Neuralgic, lancinating, shifting, shooting, paroxysmal —
Acon ; Bell, Caps, Cepa, Cham., Cinch.; Fert. p.; Kalt
ec; Vag fp, Nit. ac; Puls, Stl; Spig., Viola od

Pulsating, throbbing- Acon.; Bell., Cact; Cale. c.; Ferr.
fp, Glon ; Mere. c.; Mere. 5.3 Puls.; Rhus t ; Telfur.

Stinging -.\con, Apis; Caps

Stitching —_ lbor.: Cham, Ferr. pj Hep.; Kah bich.; Kai c,
Merce.; Nit. ac.; Plant., Puls; Viola o

Tearing /tell., Caps.; Cham, Kali bich.; Kali iod.; Merc.
s; Plant.; Puls.

MODALITIES — Ageravation: At night — Acon.; Ars.; Bell.;
Cale p.3 Cham, Dule.; Fert. p., Hep.; Kali 10d.; Alerc :
Pids , Rhus t

From cold air Cale. p ; Caps.; Cham , Hep, Kali m.; Mag
p.; Sang.

Noise Bell; Cham

Pressure, motion Menthol.

Warmth & Acon: Bor.; Cale p.; Cham.; Dule.; Merc.; Nux
v; Puls

Washing face and neck with coid water — Mag. p.

AMELIORATION — During day: <Acon.

From being carried, motion-~ Cham.

From cold applications — Puls.

From motion, covering --- Aut.

From sipping cold water —VPar m.

From warmth — Bell.; Caps.; Cham., Dulc.; Hep.; Afag. p.

In open air — Acon.; Aur; Ferr. p.; Puls,

TINNITUS AURIUM — (noises in ears): Remedies in gen-
eral: idren.; Am. c.; Antipyr.; Ars.; Bar. c; Rar. m;
Bell.; Canchal.; Carbon. s.; Caust.; Chenop.; Chenop. gl.;
Chin, sal; Chin, s.; Cim; Cinch; Cistus dec; Con.,
Digs Ferr. p.3 Ferr, pier.; Gruph.; Hep; Hydr.: Jabor.;
Kali ce; Kah iod.; Kal m.; Kali p.; Lach; Lecith.; Lith
chlor.; Merc.; Mere d.; Nat. m; Nat. sal; Paith.;
Petrol.; Phos; Filoc.; Plat.; Plumb. rmi.; Puls.; Sal. ac.,
Sang ; Sang. n., Sil.; Sulphon.; Sul.; Viole od.

ge -—~Am. c; Anac.; Antipyr.; Bar. m.; Cale. c.: Can-
chal.; Caust.; Chenop., Chin. s.; Cinch.; Dig.; Diose.;

EARS 835

Ferr. p; Formica; Graph.; Tod. Ins; Kah p, Kreos.;
Lach.

Cracking, snapping, when blowing nose, chewing, swal-
lowing, sneezing Ambra, Bar. c.. Bar. m., Cale. ¢ 3
Chenop. gl; Fermea: Gels: Graph, Wali c, Kah m;
Lach ; Nit ac., Petrol; Puls; Sily Uhuya

Hissing - Can. ind. Clon os. Dig: Graph., Tuer.

Humming — Alum; Anac.; Cale. c., Caust., Cinch ; Ferr.
p, Kah p.. Lye , Petrol, Puls ; Sang.; Sep.; Terch.

Intolerance of music - con, Ambia. Bufo: Viola od.

Pulsating, throbbing — Cale oc: Caust; Ferr, pp, Glen,
Hep... Lach; Mere; Morph Nw ae. Puls.

Re-echoing of voice, sounds- Bar «. Bar, m; Caust,
Col: Lye., Phos.; Tereb

Ringing, as of bells — feil., Cale fl. Carbon. s 3 Catt;
Chain.: Chine ss. Cinch, Formica; Graph, Tris; Lach ;
Mes, Nat. sal., Petrol.

Roaring — Aur; Calc cy, Canst. Clin os, Cinch; Elaps;
Jerr. P. Graph., Lve., Mere dad, Mere; Nat. m.. Nat
sal; Nit ac; Petrol, Phos. ac, i’uls., Sal. ac., Sang,
Su, Strych., Viola od.

Rushing- For p3 Gels; Puls.

Singing -- Chin. ¢, Dig, Graph ; Lach; Puls,

Whizzing— Bar mm; Bll., Hep, Rhod, Sul.
NOSE

AFFECTIONS, syphilitic — Asaf.; Aur, Cinnab., Fluor. acy
Kali buh , Kah 10d., Mere c.; Sil.
BONES — Caries: Asaf.; Aur.; Cadm. s.; Mere. i 1.3; Merc.;
Phos See Tissues (Generalities).
Pain- -lsaf., Aur.; Cinnab.; Hep., Kali iod ; Lach.; Mere.;
Pals, Sul
Periostitis — Asaf.; Aur., Mere.; Phos. Sce Tissues,
Ulceration — Asaf ; Hekla; Hep.; Kal tich. See Tissues.
EXTERNAL NOSE — ERUPTIONS, growths — Acne: Ars.; drs.
br., Aster.; Bor.; Caust.; Clem; Elaps; Kali br, Nat ec;
Sil; Zing.
Eczema -— Bals. per.; Iris; Sars.
Erysipelas —- Bell.; Canth ; Rhus t.
Freckles— Phos ; Sul.
Furuncles) -Cadm. s.: Cur; Hep, Sil .
Herpes - Acon. lye.; Alum.; Bell; Mut ac; Nat. in: Sep.:
Sul.
Lupus -— Ars.; Aur mur; Kieos ; X-ray.
Pustules- -/{ep.; Petrol.; Psor.; Sil
Scales - Caunsi.
Warts -— Caust ; Thuya. Sce Skin
Inflammation - - Acon ; Agar: Apis; Aur; Aur. mur.; Bell;
Bor ; Carbo an.; Ferr, 10d.; Ferr. prcr.; Fluor. ac.; Graph.;
Hlep, Uippor + Aah wei, Medusa, Mere. co; Naph; Nat.
ce: Netw ace; Sil, Sul.
Itching Aga... Cina, Fix m, Tun, Tod; Phos ac.; Pin.
oyl; Teuer; Zing.
Numbness = Nut. m.
Redness = Agar... Alum: Apis, Ar~; Bell; Bor ; Jod.; Kali
sod., Nat. ¢; Pso: ; Rhus t.; Rhus v., Yucca; Zine.
Soreness to touch--.\lum; Aw. m; Bry; Cale c Cin
nab,, Con; Graph; ep. Kali bich; J,achnanth.; Lith.
mi Aferc ; Nit ae; Rhus t.; Sil.
Varicose veins -- Caibo v.
Yellow saddle —- Sep
ALAE — (wings): Burning, hot, biting: Ars.;  Chenop.  gl.;
Sang. 2 . Senega, Sinap.; Sul.
Dryness -Chlorum; Hellev.; Seng. 1
Eczema - - nt. ¢ . Tals. per.: Bar. c.; Graph.; Petrol.
Eruptions, growths, cracks, crusts, ulcerations— Alum.; Ant.
c.. Arum, Aur.; Aur, m.n., Bov.; Calc. c.; Caust.; Coral.;
Graph, Ign., Kalt bich.; Kali cy Lye; Mere; Mat ae;
Petrol.; Sul; Tereb.; Thurva
Fannmg - Ant ¢t.; Brom.; Chei.; Gadus m.; Kali br.; Lye.s
Phos, Pyr; Sul. ac
Herpes - - ulc.; Nat. m.; Physost.
Itching = Caibo v.; Cina, Nat. p.; Santon. Sil.; Sul.
Red, inner angles -— Aga..- Mere s.; Plu:nb. ac.; Sul.
Soreness to touch — Alum; Ant._c; Ars.; Arum; Cale. c3
Cop.: Coral; Fagop: Graph.: Hep.; Kali bich.; Mere. c.;
Mere. Nut. ace, Petrol; Scilla; Uran,
NOSE 857

Throbbing — Aeon Biom
TIP —Blueness: Carbo an.; Dig

Burning -— Bell.; Bor.; Ox. ac.; Rhus t.

Cold, pale, pointed — Apis; des: Cale. p.; Camph.; Carbo
v.; Cinch ; Helleb.; Tab, Ver. a. See Face.

Congestion - Am. c

ERUPTIONS, growths — Acne: Am c.; Caust.; Sep.

Cracks- - Alum.; Craph.; Petrol.

Furuncles - .\nanth.; Bor

Herpes — 2th., Clem ; Conv, Dulc.; Nat. m.

Knobby - - \ur.

Pustules — Kah br.

Scales --- Caust ; Nat. c.

Ulcers — Dor ; Rhus t.

Tumors Ananth.; Carbo an.

Warts -— Caust

Inflammation — Bell.; Bor.; Cistus; Euphorbia; Niccol.; Nit.
ac; Rhus t.; Sep.

Itching —- Caibo an.; Caust.; Cina; Morph.; Petrol.; Santon.;

Redness —— Pcll; Bor.: Cale c; Caps.; Kali iod; Kali n.;
Niccol ; Nit. ‘ac. ; Rhus t; Salix; Su.; Sul.; Vinca m.

Soreness to touch — Bor.; Hep.; Mentha; Rhus t.

Tingling -— Rell ; Alorph. «

Torpor, as from blow — Viola od.

INTERNAL NOSE — — Abcess of septum: Acon; Bell.; Cale,
ep. 1}

Bleeding (epistaxis): Remedies in  general— Abrot.
Acon., Agat.; Ambios.; Am. c; Arn; Ars.; Bell.; Bry.
Cact.; Cale. «3; Carbo vi: Cinch; Croc; Crot. case.
Flaps: Ferr. ac.; Ferr. p.;. Ferr. pier; Ficus; Ham.
Ipec.; Wahoc.; Kali chlor., Lach ; Aleli.; Merc.; 3; Millef.
Mur. ac; Nat. nit., Nat sal; Nit. ac.; Nux v.: Oniscus
Osm ; Phos ; Puls.; Scc.; Sep.; Sul; T hlaspi; Tila
Trill., Vipera.

CAUSE — — Blowing nose: Agar. ; Aur. m3 Bov.; Carbo vw.
Caust.; Giaph.; Phos., Sec.; Sep.; Sul.

Cough — Ain,

Eating — Am, c.

Hemophilha— Ars ; Ciot ; Ham; Lach ; Phos.

Hemorrhoids, suppressed— Nux v.

Menses, absent (vicarious)— 2: , Ham.; Lach.; Nat. 3.;
Phos.; Puls.; Sep.

Motion, noise, light -- Bell.

Operations — ‘Ihlaspi. .

Recurrent cases — Ars.; Ferr. p.; Millef.; Phos,

Stooping — Rhus t.

Straining — Carbo v.

Symptomatic (fevers, purpura) — Arn.; Ham.; Ipec.; Lach.;
Phos.; Rhus t.

Traumatism — Acet. ac.; Arn: Hain.; Millet.

Washing —- 4m. c.; Ant. s. a.; Kali c.; Mag. c.

OCCURRENCE AND CONCOMITANTS — At night during
— Merc. s.; Nux v.

In ae. ren growing. rapidly - Abrot.: Arn; Cale. o3 Croe ;

Phos.
838 NOSE

In daily attacks — Carbo v. 3

In morning from washing face- .\m. c.,  Arn.; Kali c.;
Omscus.

In morning on awaking, arising, etc — .\loc; Ambra; Bov ;
Bry.; Cinch.; Lach.; Nu«e wv.

In old people- Agar.; Carbo v.

Persistent, with goose flesh—- Camph.

Preceded by heat and pain in head —-Nux v.

With biliousness -— Chel.

With chest affections — Nit. ac

With chronic vertigo — Sul.

With face congested, red-- Bell ; Afch., Nux v.

With face pale -- Carbo v ; lIpec.

With prostration —- Diph

With relief of chest symptoms — Pov.

With relief of headache—- }Iiam.; Mel:

With tightness, pressure at root of nose — Ham.

TYPE OF BLOOD — Black, stringy: (roc., Crot.; Mere s.

Bright red -- Acon , Bell.; Bry , Carbo v.; Erecht., Ferr. p.;
Ipec ; Millef ; Trill.

Coagulated -— Cinch.; Nat chlor , Nux v.

Dark, fluid — Arn ; Ham., J,ach.; Mur. ac.; Sec.

Non-coagulable, passive, profuse-— Caibo v., Crot.; Ham.;
Phos , Thlasp.

BLOWS NOSE continually— Am. c., Bor., Hydr.;  Stscta;
ritic.

Boring, digging into--.4rum, Cina, Welleb.; Phos. ac;
Santon., Teucr.; Zinc. m.

Burning, smarting — Acon.; A®sc.; Am. m.; Ars.; Ars. tod ;
Arum; Bar. c; Biuw., Caps.; Cepa; Cop; Hep.; Hydr.,
Kaolin; Merce. ¢.; Merc. s, Penthor.; Sahad.; Sang.,
Sang. n.; Sinap

Coldness -—- Zisc., Camph ; Cistus, Coral.; Hydr.; Lith. ¢;

er, a. .

Congestion, violent — Bell.; Cupr m; Veli.

Dryness - dcon, Ase; Am c.; Bell.; Cale. ¢.; Camph.;
Con.; Cop.; Glycerin; Graph.; Kali bich.; Kali ¢; Kali
aod., Lemna; Lye., Nat om.; Nit ac.; Nux m.; Nug v.;
Onosm ; Petrol: FPhos., Rumex. Samb.; Sang.; Sang. n.;
Sence ; Sep: Sil; Simap., Sticia; Sul. See Stoppage.

ERUPTIONS, growths — Furuncles, pimples:$:1.; Tub.; Vinca.

Lupus — Ars., Cale. c.; Cic.; Hydr.; Hydrocot.; Merc.; Rhus
t.; Sal; Tub.

Nodular swelling — Arcs.

Papilloma — Catst.; Thuya. '

Polypi —- Cadm. s ; Cak. c., Cale. iod.; Cale. p.: Caust.; Cepas
Formica; Kah Lich ; Kali n.; Lemna m.; Merce. i. r.; Nit
ac: Phos., Sang. Sang. n.; Staph.; Teucr., Thuya.

Scabs, crusts, plugs, clinkers — /um.; Ant. c.; Arum; Aur.;
Ror ; Cadm. s.; Cale. fl, Cop.; Dalc.; Elaps; Graph.;
Vip. Ayur.; Kali dich, Lemna m; ye; Nat ars.; Nat.
n. Nit ac; Puls; Sang. n.; Sep.; Sil; Sticta; Sul.;
‘Youre; Thuya.

pllferations, excoriations — Alum.; Ars., Ars. iod.; Arum;
“Aur; Bor, Cepa; Graph., Hep.; Hydr.; Kali _bvich.; Kah

, 4 Kreos , Mere. c.; Mere; Nt. ac.; Ran. s.; Sil; Traya;
“Vinca, —
NOSE 839

HARDNESS (rhino-sclerma) — Aur. m. n.; Calc. fl.; Con.

Inflammation (rhinitis): Acute, catarrhal from pollen ir-
ritation, HAY FEVER, rose cold, summer catarrh:
Ambros : Aral; Ars., Ars. tod ; Arum; Arundo; Benz.
ac, Cepa; Chin. ars; Cocaine; Cupr. ac; Dule.; Euphorb.
pi.; Euphras, Gels.; Hep.: Ipec; Kali 1t0d.; Kali is.
chrom ; Lach.; Tjinum usit.; Mere. i. fl; Naph.; Nat. iod.;
Nat. m.; Nux v.: Pollantin: Psor.; Ran. b.; Roso d;
Sabad.; Sang: Sang. »; Sil, Sinap.; Skook. ch.; Solid.;
Sticta, Supraren ext ; Trifol.

Inflammation, acute, catarrhal, ordinary cold in head:
Acon, Aisc.; Am c.3 Am. om; adrs., rs. 10d.; Arum;
Avena: Bell.; Brom; Bry., Camph., Cepa: Cham.; Dule.;
Kup., perf.; Euphras ; Ferr. p.; Gels, Glycerin; Hep.;
Hydr., Wydroc. ac, Jod, Justicia, Kal bich.; Kali tod.;
Iach.; Menthol; Merc. s.; Nat. ars.; Nat. m; Nux v;
Phos., Puls.; Quill , Sabad ; Samb , Sang ; Sang. #.; Solid.;
Stuta, Tereb.; Ther.; lromb, ..

CONCOMITANTS — Aching in limbs: Acon.; Bry.; Eup. perf ;
nels,

Chilliness (initial stage) -—-f.on ; PBapt.: Camph.; Caps.;
Ferr p.; Gels, Mere. i. ry Nux v3 Phyt ; Owl; Sapon,
Predisposition to colds - Agranh.; Alum.; Bac; Bar. c.;

Cale. ¢ , Cale. iod.; Calend ; Dule.: Ferr. p.; Gels; Mep.,
Hvdr ; Kaltes Mere; Net. m., Nux v.; Phos.; Psor.; Sep;
Sohd ; Sul ; Tub

CORYZA — Dry (stuffy colds, snuffles): Acon.; Am c.; Am.
m., Arum; Cale ¢; Camph ; Caust.; Cham ; Cistus; Con.;
Dule ; Elaps; Glyecerm: Graph.; Hep.; Iod.; Kal bich.;
Kah c., lach.; Lye + Menthol; Nat. m.; Nit. ac; Nux v.;
Osm.; Puls.; Sanb. Sep.; Sil; Sécta; Teucr. See Stop-

page

Alternately dry and fluent— Am. c; Ars.; Lac ¢.; Lach.;
Mag. m; Nat. ars., Nux v., Puls.; Sinap.; Solan. n.;
Spong

Coryza, fluent, watery (running cold) isc ; Agraph.; Ail.;
Ambros, Am. w; Am phos; Aral; Ars ; Ars. tod.; Arum;
Brom., Cepa; Cycl.; Fucal.; Fup. perf.; Euphras.; Gels.;
Hydr.; Tod ; Tpec.; Justicia; Kah chlor ; Kali 1od.; Merc.
¢.; Merc s.; Narcissus: Nat. ars.; Nat. m.; Quill; Sabad.;
Sang, n.; Scilla; Sil; Solan nj; Trifol.

Coryza, periodic — Ars ; Cinch.; Sang.

Coryza, with chronic tendency --- Am. c.; Cale. ¢.; Cale. iod.;
Carin Graph ; Hep., Kah bich ; Kali iod.; Puls.; Sars.;
Si; Su :

Coryza, with palpitation, especially in aged — Anac.

Coryza, with thick mucus — 4ur; Ferr. iod.; Hep.; Kak
bich.; Kali s.; Mere. s, Penthor.; Puls.; Sang. n.; Sep.;
Stcta

Coryza, worse in evening — Cepa; Glycerin; Puls.

Coryza, worse in newborn — Dulce.

Corvza, worse in warm room, better in open air — Ars.;

epa

Cough — Alum.; Beill.; Bry.; Cepa; Dros.; Euphras.; Justicia;
Lyc.; Sang.; Sinap.; Sticta

Fever, low type, in old people — Bapt.

Headache — Acon.; Ars.; Bry.; Cepa; Camph.; Cinch ; Eup.
perf.; Gele ; Kali sod.; Nat. ars.; Nux v.; Sabad.; Sang.
840 NOSE

Hoarseness, aphonia — Ars.; Caust.; Cepa; Hep.; Phos.;
Pop. c.; Tellur.

Infants, with snuffles — Acon.; Am. c.; Bell.; Cham.; Dulc.;
Hep.; Mere. i. fii; Nux v.; Samb.; Sticta; Sul.

Insomnia —- Ars.; Cham.

Lachrymation, sneezing— Acon; Am. phos.; Aral.; Ars.;
Ars, iod.; Camph.; Cepa; Cham.; Cvcl.; Eup. pert.; Eu-
phras.; Gels., Apec.; Justicia; Kali chlor.; Kak itod.;
Menthol; Merc. 5.; Naph;. Nat. m; Nusx v.; Sabad.; Scilla;
Sinap.; Sohd.; Sticta. See Lachrymation.

Photophobia- - Ars.; Bell.; Cepa; Euphras.

Prostration, lassitude— Ars.; Ars. iod.; Bapt.; Gels.

Respiration, asthmatic — Ant. t.; Aral., Ars. 10d.; Bad.;
Ipec.; Naph.

Inflammation, acute, croupous, fibrinous — 4m. caust.; Apis;
Ars.; Echin.; Hep.; Kal bich.; Lach.; Merc s.

Inflammation, chronic atrophic (sicca)— 4ium; Am. c¢.;
Aur ; Calc. fi.; Cinnab.; Elaps; Fluor, ac.; Graph.; Hep.;
Kah bich, Kalt iod.; Kali is. chrom.; Lemna m.; Lyc.;
Merc.; Sabal; Sep.; Sticta; Sul.: Teucr.; Weyth.

Inflammation, chronic catarrhal — dlum.; Am_br.; Am. m.;
Ars. iod.; Aur. mur.; Bals. per.; Brom.; Calc. c., Cub.;
Elaps; fiucal.; Hep.; Inppos., Hydr., Kali bich.; Kali_c.;
Kali sod.; Kreos.; Lemna m.; Mere. i. 1.3 Merce. s.; Nat.
c,; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Nit. ac.; Phos.; Puls., Sabad.; Sang.;
Sang. n.; Sep; Spig.; Sticta; Teucr.; Thuya.

Inflammation, purulent in children — Alum.; Cale. ¢.; Cycl.;
Hep; Kult bich.; Lye; Nat. eo: Nit. ac.

TYPE OF DISCHARGE IN RHINITIS — Acrid, watery, fluent,
hot, or thin mucus: Ambros; Am. caust, Am. m.,
Aral; Ars.; Ars, .wod.; Arum; Bell.; Carbo v.; Cepa;
Cham.; Eucal; Gels, Glycerin; Jod.; Kaiti 10d.; Kreos.;
Lach.; A/erc. c. Mere.; Mur ac.; Naph.; Nat ars.; Nat.
m.; Nit. ac; Sabad.; Sang; Sang. n ; Scilla; Sul.; Trifol.

Albuminous, clear mucus — JEsc.; Calc. c.; Camph.; Graph.;
Hydr.; Kali bich.; Kalt 1od.; Kah m., Menthol; Nat om.,

08

Bland mucus — Guphras . Jugl. c.; Kali iod.; Puls.; Sep.

Bloody mucus — Ail.; Arg. nj; Ars.; 4rum; Aur.;_ Echin.;
Hep.; Hydr.; Kali bich.; Mere. c; Merc. i. r.; Penthor.;
Phos.; Sang. n.; Sil.

Green, yellow, fetid (purulent or muco-purulent) — Alum.;
Ars. iod.; Arum; Aur.; Bals. per.; Cale. c.; Cale. iod ;
Cale. s ; Dule.; Eucal.; Hep.; Hydr.; Kali bich.; Kali iod.;
Kali s., Lyc.; Merc.; Nat s.; Nit. ac.; Penthor.; Phos;
Puls; Sang. n.; Sep.; Su.; Thaya; Tub.

Membranous formation — 4m. caust.; Echin.; UWep.; Kal
bun. See Croupsus Rhinitis.

Offensive, fetid — Ars. iod.; Asaf.; Aur.; Bals. per.; Calc.
«.; Echin.; Elaps; Eucal.; Graph; Hep., Hydr.; Kali
bich.; Kali iod.; Mere. s; Nat. c.; Nit ac.; Puls.; Sang.;
Sep.; Su.; Sul: Ther; Tub.

Profuse --- Ail; Am.m.; Aral; Ars.; Ars. iod.; Arum; Bals.
per.; Cale. iod.; Cepa, Euphras ; Hep.; Hydr.; Kais bich.;
NOSE 841

Kali iod., Merc., Nux v., Puls.; Sang.; Sang. n; Scp.;

huya.

Salty-tasting-— Aral ; Tellur.

Scabs, crusts, plugs — dlum.; Ant. c.; Aur.; Bor.; Cale. fl.;
Cale sil; Caust.; Elaps; Fagop.; Graph.; Hep.; Hvydr ;
Kah bich ; Kaolin; Lemna m; Lyc; Merc. 1. fl.; Nat.
ars.; Nit. ac.; Petiol.; Puls; Sep., Sil.; Sticta; Sul ;
Teucr., ‘Thuya.

Thick -- Alum; Am_ brom.; Cale. c.; Uep.; Hydr.; Kult
bich., Mere. c., Merc. s. Nat. «3 Penthor.; P’uls., Sep;
Yher.; Thuya.

Unilateral -- Calc s.; Calend ; Phyt.

Viscid, ropy, stringy - -Bov., Gall. ac.; Hydr.; Kali bich.;
Myr.; Sticta; Sumb.

ITCHING in nose — Ayn, Am. c, Ars. iwd.,. Arundo, Aur.;
Throm 3 Cina, Fagop.; Glycerin; Hydr., Ran. b.; Rosa d ;
Sebad.; Sang ; Santan., Sep.; Sil; Teoucr.; Wyeth.

Nervous disturbance — Agar.

Numbness, tingling — Acon.; Jugl. o.; Mat. m.; Vlat.; Ran.
hb; Sabad ; Sang; Sil; Sticta.

OZAENA — Odor: - - Alum.; .A1s, iod ; -isaf., Aur. m ; 4ur, mur.;
Cadm. s.; Cale c3 Cale. fl; Carb ac; Klaps; Ferr. 10d.;
Giaph.; Ifep., Thppos TIydr., Wydiast. mui.; Iod., Kali
bich., Kah ¢; Kah chrom.; Kal 10d.; Kali p; Kreos.;
Lach.; Ieinna mj; Mere 2 4.3; Mere. pr. rub; Merc. s.;
Nit ac.. Phos ac.; Phos; Psor.; Puls.; Sep.; Sil;
Teucr , Ther.; Thuya; Trost.

Syphilitic — Asaf.: fur. Crot.; Fluor ac.; Kali bich.; Kali
iod.: Nit. ac., Syph.

PAIN in— Aching in dorsum, better from pressure — Agn.
Boring, gnawing -- Asaf.; dur; Prom.; Kali iod.; Merce. 1. r.
Burning -—.Esc., Ars; Ars. wd.; Arum; Chrom. ac.; Kals

tod., Lach.; Mere c.; Sang. See Burning.

Cramp-like — Plat.; Sabad.

Pressing at root of nose ~- fcon.; Alum.; Arum;  Caps.;
Cepa, Cinnab.; Gels; Hep.; Iod.; Kah bich.; Kali iod.;
Nat. ars.; Nux v.; Oniscus; Parts; Plat.; Puls.; Ran. b.;3
Ruta; Sang. n.; Sep.; Stacta.

Pressing in frontal sinuses —Jod; Kali bich.; Kah 1t0d.;
Merc.; Nux v.; Sang.; Sticta.

Sharp to ears -- Mcic. c.

Splinter-like, sticking —- 4ur., Ilep.; Kali bich.; Nit. ac.

String-like to ear — I,emna m.

Throbbing — Bell.; Hep., Kali iod.

Violent shooting, from occiput to root of nose, from
suppressed discharge — Kali bich.

POSTERIOR NARES— (naso-pharynx): Inflammation of
Acute: Acon.: Camph.; Cistus; Gels.; Menthol; Merc. c.
Nat. ars.; Wyeth. See Rhinitis, Pharyngttis.

Chronic— Aur.; Calc. fl.; Elaps; Fagop.; Hydr.; Kali bich.
Kali c.; Merc. c.; Penthor.; Sep.; Spsg.; Sticta; Sul.
Thuya.

Chronic with drupping of mucus — Remedies in General
Alum.; Am. br.; Ant. c.; Ars. iod.; Aur.; Calc. sil.
Coral., Echin.; Glycerin; Hydr.; Irid.; Kali bich.; Kali
842 NOSE

m.; Lemna m; Merc. 1. 7.3 Nat. c.; Penthor.; Phyt.;
Sang. n.. Sinap n, Spig.; Sticta; Teucr.; Wyeth.

Clear, acrid, thin mucus — Ars 10d

Clear mucus — Aali m., Nat m.; Solan, lye.

Lumpy — Osm ; Tcucr.

Thick. tenacious, yellow, or white mucus-~— Alum.; Am. br ;
Ant ¢.; Cale sil; Coral.; Hydr., Aah dich ; Lemna mi;
Menthol; Merc. 1 fl.; Nat. ¢; Sang n; Spig.

Tumors -- Chrom. ac , Osm,

Wet, raw feeling — Penthor.

SENSE OF SMELL—Diminished: Alum , Cycl ; Welleb.; Hep.,
Kah ec. Menthol, Mez.; Rhod.; Sil.; Tab

Hypersensitive — con., Agar; Aur, Bell., Carb. ac.; Carbo
7, Cham, Cinch., Colch., Graph.; Lye; Mag m, Nie
tv, Phos , Sabad.; Sep ; Sul

Hypersensitive to flowers —- Graph.

Hypersensitive to food--- Ars.; Coleh.; Sep.

Hypersensitive to tobacco - Bell.

Lost (anosmia) or perverted -.j/um,, Am. m. Amyg. pers,
elnac ; Apoc. andi, Aur.; Bell; Cale co; Hep, lod,
Justicia; Kah buh, Lemna m, May. m.; Nat. m, Nit.
ac.; Puls.; Sang; Sep.; Sil; Sul; Teuet., Zinc. mur.

Parosmia (illusions) — Agn.; .fnac, <Apoc. andr; Ars ;
Aur.; Bell., Cale ¢; Coral; Diose; Aah bich, Mag. bh,
Merc.; Nit. ac; Nux v3; Phos., Puls, Sang, Sul.

SENSITIVENESS of nose to air, touch -/Esc., Alum; dint
ce, Asal. Ars: JJiam, GNur, .Bell, Cale, ce; Camph.,
Hep.; Wah Inch., Kaolin, Mere , Nat. m., Osm., Sil

SINUSES — (antrum, frontal. sphenoidal): Affections in
general: J\is., Awaf., Bell., Cale. c, Camph., Kucal . lifer ;
dod, Kah Inch.; Kali wed , Twwe st Merce a fl, Mere.s Mez,
Phos, ac, Phos., Su., Sing; Stcta, Teucr,

Catarrh cf frontal sinuses—- Jod ; Nal: ted., Lyc ; Menthol;
Mere >. fl; Nat m, Nux vi: Sabad.: Streta; Thuya.

Pain and swelling of antrum- - Phos.; Spig.

Syphilitic affections -- Aur ; Kal, iod., Nit. ac

SNEEZING — (sternutation): .\con ; Ambros; Am. m.; Aral,
ars, Ars, sod.; Arum, Arundo; Calc. ¢ Camph ; Cepa;
Cyel.: Fup. perf.;  Kuphoria, @uphras., Gels., Ichthv.;
lod: Ife, Kali biech; Kali 1od., Lob cer.; Menthol,
Mere ; Naph; Nat mj; Nit ac; Rosa d.; Rhus t., Sabad ;
Succin. ac; Sang.; Sang. nu, Scilla; Sencee.; Senega;
Sinap.; Sticta.

Sneezing, chronic tendency Si!

Sneezing, ineffectual --4rs., Carbo v.; Sil.

Sneezing, worse coming into warm room; rising from
bed; handling peaches — Cepa

Sneezing, worse in cool air-— Arcs.; Hep.; Sabad.

Sneezing, worse in evening — (:lycerin

Sneezing, worse in morning — Canst ; Nux. o.: Sil

Sneezing, worse immersing hands in water — Lac. d.; Phos.

STOPPAGE — Stuffiness: Acon.; Am. c.; Am. m; Anac.; Apoc.
Ars; Ars, od ; drum; dur; Aur mon; Cale. c.: Camph.
Caust. ; Cham.; Con.; Cop.;_Elaps; Eucal.; Fluor. ac.
Formica, Glycerin; Graph.; Helianth.; Hep.; Kali bich.
Kali c.; Kali iod; Lemna m; Lyc.; Menthol; Nat. ars.
NOSE 843

Nat m, Nit ac; Nurs v.; Paris; Penthor.; Petrol; uls.;
Radium: Sabad.; Samb., Sang. n., Sep.; Sil; Stnap.;
Spong. Sticta

Stoppage, alternating nostrila— Acon.; Am. ¢; Bor,; Lee
c: Mag. m.; Nur v.

Swelling —- A\ntpyr.; Ars; Ars tod , Aur., Aur s. a; Bar.
ce; Bell; Cale. c.; Hep.; Aah bich., Lemma m, Merc. c.
Ste ror. Nit. ac, Sabad ; Sang.; Sep. See Inflamma-
tion.

ULCERATION OF SEPTUM— .\lum; Aur; Brom.; Carb. ac.;
Fluor. ac, Hippoz; Hyvdr., Kal dich, Kali iod.; Merc.
ce, Nit. ac.; Sil; Vinea.

Ulceration, syphilitie— /lur., Coral ; Kal tod.; Lach.; Mere.
aur.; Nit, oc

Wet feeling not relieved by blowing -- Penthor.
FACE

APPEARANCE—CONDITION—Anemic, alabaster-like, waxen:
bceh gt a..; Apts, Ars., Cale. p.; Ferr. m., Lach.; Mere c,
ep.; Sil

Bloated, puffy —- Eth.; Am. benz.; Apis; Ars.; Bor. ac;
Bothrops; Cale c.; Ferr. m3 Kah c., Helleb.; Hyos.;
Ivach.; Medusa; Merc. c., Op.; Phos.; Taxus; Xerophyl

Bloated about eyes: — Am. bens; Ars; Bor. ac, laps,
Merc. c., Nat. c3 Phos ; Rhus t.; Thlasp1; Xerophyl.

Bloated about lower eyelids -— 4pis; Neiophyl.

Bloated about upper eyelids — Kali c.

Blue, livid (cyanosis) -— Absinth; Am. ¢; Ant. 4; Arg on
ars. Aur.; Camph.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Chlorum, Cte.
Cima; Cimnab.; Crot.: Cupr. ac.; Cupr. m.; Dig., Kerr
Hvydroc. ac; Ipec., Lach. ; Laur.; Morph; Cinanthe, Op
Phenac ; Rhus t.; Samb: ; Sce.; Strych.; Tab., Ver oa
See Circulatory System.

Blue rings around, dull locking eyes —- albrot, Acct. ac
wlrs.; Cale oc, Camph., Cima; Cinch.; Cyel.; Ipec
CEnanthe, Phos ac; Phos; Santon, Sec., Sep.s Spg ;
Stann ; Staph , Tab; Ver a Zine. m.

Blushing -  Jmiyv/, Catho an, Carls, Cora, Fer. Sut

Bronzed -- Ant c: Nit. ac.; See.; Spig.

Brown spots on- scp

Coppery fouk — Alumn.; Nit ac

Distorted — Absinth.; Art v; Bell; Camph.; Cic.; Cupr ac;
Cupre m., Crot.; Helleb.; Hyos.; 3 Nux v; Op, Sec,
Stram.

Earthy, dirty, sallow, cachectic —.Jcet ac.; Ars.; Berh v.:
Cale. p; Samphs ; Coro, v., Caust.; Chel; Cinch., Ferr
Glycerin; Ilyd lod.; Lye; Mere. c; Merc ; Nat, +m.
Nux v., Piios. ac; Phos ; Pier. ac; Plumb. m.; Psor
Sanic., Sec; Sep., "Staph. ; Sul.

Expression anxious, ‘suffering - ~ teon.; th.; Ars; Bor;
Camph , Canth ; Cina; Iod.; Kieos.3 3 Mere. c; Stram;
Strych.; Tab; bicr. a

Expression drowsy, stupid -— Ail: Apis; Bapt; Can ind.;
Gels.; Helleb ; Ot.; Rhus t.

Greasy, oily, shiny Nat. m., Flumb.; Psor.; Sanic.; Selen ;

uya.

Hippocratic (sickly, sunken, deathly cold) —- Acon.; (Eth.;
Ant t. Arn.; Ars.; Camph , Carbo v.: Cinch.; Cyprp.,
Helleb, Mere cy , Piumb. m., See; Tab; ber a,
Zimc. 4

Jaundiced, yellow  .frs . Berb wv: Blatta am.; Brv.; Calc.

Cark vy. «3 Chel, Chionanth.; Cinch.; Crot.; Dig.; Hep.;
Hyd; 3 lod; Kah c; > Lach.; Lye: Mere.; Mere. d.;
Myr.: Nat. m:; Nat. Nat, s.3 Nur uv; OL y. as3
Petrol: Phumb om, Boa. Sep.;  Tarar.; Yucca. See
aundice.

Pale -- Abrot.; Acet. ac.: Amt. t.; Apis; Arg. n.3 Ars; Bell.;
Berb. v.; Bor, Cale c.; Cale p; Camph , Carbo v, Cina;
FACE

APPEARANCE—CONDITION—Anemic, alabaster-like, waxen:
bceh gt a..; Apts, Ars., Cale. p.; Ferr. m., Lach.; Mere c,
ep.; Sil

Bloated, puffy —- Eth.; Am. benz.; Apis; Ars.; Bor. ac;
Bothrops; Cale c.; Ferr. m3 Kah c., Helleb.; Hyos.;
Ivach.; Medusa; Merc. c., Op.; Phos.; Taxus; Xerophyl

Bloated about eyes: — Am. bens; Ars; Bor. ac, laps,
Merc. c., Nat. c3 Phos ; Rhus t.; Thlasp1; Xerophyl.

Bloated about lower eyelids -— 4pis; Neiophyl.

Bloated about upper eyelids — Kali c.

Blue, livid (cyanosis) -— Absinth; Am. ¢; Ant. 4; Arg on
ars. Aur.; Camph.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Chlorum, Cte.
Cima; Cimnab.; Crot.: Cupr. ac.; Cupr. m.; Dig., Kerr
Hvydroc. ac; Ipec., Lach. ; Laur.; Morph; Cinanthe, Op
Phenac ; Rhus t.; Samb: ; Sce.; Strych.; Tab., Ver oa
See Circulatory System.

Blue rings around, dull locking eyes —- albrot, Acct. ac
wlrs.; Cale oc, Camph., Cima; Cinch.; Cyel.; Ipec
CEnanthe, Phos ac; Phos; Santon, Sec., Sep.s Spg ;
Stann ; Staph , Tab; Ver a Zine. m.

Blushing -  Jmiyv/, Catho an, Carls, Cora, Fer. Sut

Bronzed -- Ant c: Nit. ac.; See.; Spig.

Brown spots on- scp

Coppery fouk — Alumn.; Nit ac

Distorted — Absinth.; Art v; Bell; Camph.; Cic.; Cupr ac;
Cupre m., Crot.; Helleb.; Hyos.; 3 Nux v; Op, Sec,
Stram.

Earthy, dirty, sallow, cachectic —.Jcet ac.; Ars.; Berh v.:
Cale. p; Samphs ; Coro, v., Caust.; Chel; Cinch., Ferr
Glycerin; Ilyd lod.; Lye; Mere. c; Merc ; Nat, +m.
Nux v., Piios. ac; Phos ; Pier. ac; Plumb. m.; Psor
Sanic., Sec; Sep., "Staph. ; Sul.

Expression anxious, ‘suffering - ~ teon.; th.; Ars; Bor;
Camph , Canth ; Cina; Iod.; Kieos.3 3 Mere. c; Stram;
Strych.; Tab; bicr. a

Expression drowsy, stupid -— Ail: Apis; Bapt; Can ind.;
Gels.; Helleb ; Ot.; Rhus t.

Greasy, oily, shiny Nat. m., Flumb.; Psor.; Sanic.; Selen ;

uya.

Hippocratic (sickly, sunken, deathly cold) —- Acon.; (Eth.;
Ant t. Arn.; Ars.; Camph , Carbo v.: Cinch.; Cyprp.,
Helleb, Mere cy , Piumb. m., See; Tab; ber a,
Zimc. 4

Jaundiced, yellow  .frs . Berb wv: Blatta am.; Brv.; Calc.

Cark vy. «3 Chel, Chionanth.; Cinch.; Crot.; Dig.; Hep.;
Hyd; 3 lod; Kah c; > Lach.; Lye: Mere.; Mere. d.;
Myr.: Nat. m:; Nat. Nat, s.3 Nur uv; OL y. as3
Petrol: Phumb om, Boa. Sep.;  Tarar.; Yucca. See
aundice.

Pale -- Abrot.; Acet. ac.: Amt. t.; Apis; Arg. n.3 Ars; Bell.;
Berb. v.; Bor, Cale c.; Cale p; Camph , Carbo v, Cina;
FACE 845

Cinch.; Cupr. m.; Cycl ; Ferr. ac; Fetr. mj; Ferr. mur.;
Ferr. red ; Glon.; Helleb ; Jpec.; Kali_c.; Lach.; Lecith.;
Med; Merc. c.; Mere. d; Morph; Nat. m; Nit. ac;
Phos; Plumb. n., Puls., Santon, Sec.; Sep; Spig.;
Stann ; Staph ; Tab., Ver a, Zine m.

Parchment-like — Ars

Red, becomes deathly pale on rising — Acon ; Ver a

Red, dark, dusky, besotted, bloated -— Ail.; Apis; Ais. m3;
Bapt., Bothrops, Biy.; Carb ac.; Gels, yor; Nach;
Morph., Nuxv, Op Rhus t 3 Stram

Red, distorted — Bell, Cic, Cupr. ac, Cupr. m, Crot.;
llyos.; Op; Stram

Red, flushed after eating-- Alum) Carbo an ; Cails.; Coral.;
stront

Red, flushed, from emotion, pain - A\con; Amyl, Coca,
herr, m, ign: Meli

Red, flushed, hot, florid Acct. ac; 4ion., Agar; Amyl,
wister., Vapt; Bell, Bry., Canth, Caps., Ferr. p.; Gels.;
Glen., Glycerin; Kreos, Melt, Myg.; Op; Quercus;
Rhamnus c, Sang, Stram, Sul, Ver. wv.

Red, semi-lateral oo A\cou.; Cham., Cina, Dros,  Ipec.,
Nux v.

Red, though cold — Asaf ; Caps.

Sensitive, after neuralgie — Cad

Sweating —--leet ac. Amyl, .fnt tft. Ais, Cham, Glon.;
Samb., Sil; Tab., Ver. a., Viola ti

Sweating, cold- --fnt ¢. cirs. Camph: Cathe «, Cina;
Euphorbia; Lob. infl* Tab, Ver a., Zine mur.

Sweating, in small spots, while eating Ign

Sweating on forehead - Cham; Euphorbia, Op, Ver. a.

Swelling acon, Ant ars.; Antipyr, pis, Ars, Ars. in;
Bell, Cepa; Coleh.; Helleb.; Lach; Alerc. c., Ofnanthe;
Op.; Phos.; Rhus t, Rhus v.; Ver. a; Vespa, Vipera.

Swelling from toothache —- Bell, Cham.; Coff.; Mag. c.;
alerce,

Wrinkled, shrivelled, old-looking -- Abrot.; Arg. n.; Bar. c,
Bor; Cale. p; Gon; Fluer ac, Tod, Kreos.: Lye; Nat.
m.; Op.; Psor; Pulex; Samc ; Sars.; Sec.; Sil; Sul.

BONES — (facial): Caries: Aur. m, Cistus; Fluor, ac.; Hekla.

Inflammation - Aur m

Pains -— Alum.; Arg. n; Astrag; Aur ; Carbo_an.; Caust.;
Dule.; Hep.; Merc.; Nit. sp. d.; Phos.; Stl; Zine.

Sensitive— Aur ; Hep.; Kali bich.; Mez. See Jaws.

CHEEKS — Bites when chewing: Caust.; Jgn.; Ol. an.

Burning — Agar.; Euphotb.; Ferr. p.; Nit. sp. d.; Phos. ac.;
Phos.; Sul. See Scnsation.

Eruptions — Ant. c.; Dulc.: Graph ; Led.; Mes. See Erup-
tions on face.

Lumpy — Antipyr

Pains Aner Angust i er. * See Prosopalgia.

Redness — Caps.; Cic.; Coff.; Coleh.; Euphorbia; Euphras.;
Meh. See Red Face. P

Redness, unilateral — 4con.; Cham.; Cina; Dros; Ipec.;
Nux v.

Spots, circumscribed, red, burning— Benz. ac; Bry.; Cina;
Ferr. mur., Lachnanth.; Phos.; Sombs Sang.; Stram.; Sul.
846 FACE

Swelling— Acon.; Bell; Bov.; Cale. fl, Euphorb.; Kal m.;
Plant.; Plat. See Swelling of Face.
Tingling, numbness — .4con., Plat.
Ulcers, wart-like — Ars.
CHIN — Eruptions: Ant. c.; Aster; Cic., Graph.; Hep.; Nat.
m; Phos ac; Rhus t., Sep.; S1l; Sul. sod.; Zine.
ERUPTIONS ON FACE — Acne rosacea- - -Irs. br.; Carbo an.;
Chrysar.; Eug. y., Kreos.; Ophor.; Psor.; Sul.; Sulphurous

ac.

Acne simplex = Ambra: Ant. c.; Bell.; Berb. aq.; Cale. p.;
Cale s; Carbo v; Cim.; Clem; Con., Crot.t; Eug. 7:
Graph., Ind.; Jugl. r, Kah ars.; Kali br.; Kali c.; Ted |
Med; ‘Nat. m.3 Nux v., Phos. ac; Sut, Thuya.

Angioma \brot

Blotches -— Berb. aq, Kah c.; Nux v.

Cancer, open, bleeding —~ Cistus

Comedones -—- Abrot , Fug. ).; Jugl. r.; Nit. ac.; Sul

Crusta-lactea_— Cale. c.; ; Hep $ Merc pr. rub.; Ithus ¢., Sil;
Viola tr. See Scalp.

Eczema -— Anac ; An! c.; Ars ; Cale c.; Carb ae.; Crot. t;
Graph, Hep.; Led.; Mere. pr. sub, Mes. ,» Nat. m; Sep;
Sil., Sul.; Sul iod.; Vinca; Viola tr.

Epithelioma - .\rs; Kali s; Lob. etin

Erysipelas —.\nac oc.; Ananth.; Apis; Bell., Bor, Canth,
Carbo an ; Euphorb.; Ferr. mur.; Graph.; Gymnocl , ilep,
Rhus ¢, Sep.; Solan, c.; Ver v.

Erythema - -.\1s icd.; Bell., Condur; I[chin.; Euphorbia;
Graph.: Nux v.

Furuncles--- Alum ; nt. c., Cale p.; Hep, Led., Med.

Herpes (tetter) — \nac oc ; Canth.; Clem ; Dulc., Euphorh ;
Lyc.; Nat. m.; Rhus t., Sep.

Humid, moist — Ant Cc; Cie. : ; Dule.; Graph., HWep.; Mez.;

sor.; Rhus t.; Viola tr.

Lentigo (freckles) — .\m c.; Iris germ, ; Graph. ; Tye. : ae
ac., Nat. ¢, Nit. ac.; Phos.; Sep; Qui., Tab.;

Lupus ~ Cistus.

Pustules -—- fut. c; Bell.; Cale. c.3 Cale. s, Cu, Graph;
Hep.; Indium; Merc.; Psor.

Rough, harsh — Herb. ag.; Nah c.; Petrol, Sul.

Scabs, crusts, scurfs— Ars, Cic; Cistus; Graph.; Hep.;
Rhus t.

Scales- Ars ; Euphorbia

Spots, copper-colored — Benz. ac.; Carbo an, Lyc; Nit.

Spots, red -Berob  ag.; Euphorbia; Kal hich; WNali c.;
(Enanthe; Petrol.
Spots, yellow— Nat. c; Sep.
SYPHILIDAE -— Areole, papules: —~ Kali jod.
Copper spots — Carbc an; Lyc.; Nit. ac.
Crusts, areole -— Nit ac.
Pustules — Kah ied.; Nit. ac
Tubercles — Alum ; Carbo an ; Fluor. ac
Ulcer, eroding — Con.
Warts— Cale. s, Castorea; Caust.; Kali c.
FACE 847

Whiskers, eruptions -— Iep
Whiskers, falling out -- Graph., Selen, Scalp
Whiskers, itching— Calc c See Skin.
FOREHEAD feels contracted, wrinkled — Bapt.; Bellis; Grat ;
Helleb ; Wye. Phos.; Primula.
Glabella, sweiling -— Sil.
JAWS — Cracking when chewing: Am c; Granat; Lac c; Nei
ac., Rhus t.
Dislocated easy — Ign; Petrol; Rhus ¢.; Staph.
Growths, swelling — Amphiy; Cake fi., Hekla; Plumb.; Thuya.
Pain - Acon.: Agar.; .\lum.; Am. m., Am. picr.; Amphis ,
Anrgust.;, Arum; Astrag; Aur om.; Bapt. conf.; Calc.
caust ; Carbo an.; Caust. Merc.; Phos.; Rhus t.; Sang;
Sphingur., Spig.; Nenth.
Stiffness (trismus, lockjaw)-- Abs nth.: .Jcon ; Arn.; Bell ;
Carbon. oxy; Caust. Cham, (Cir., Cupr. ac; Cupr
m, Cur; Dule; Ilydroc. ac; FH yper., Ign.; Merc. ¢.;3
Motph., Nerium; Nicot.; Nur v7, Uinanthe; Physost.,
Solan n.; Stram.; Strvch , Ver.
Trembling — Alum ; .4nt ¢., Cadm 8; Gels
LOWER JAW — Caries, necrosis: -- Amplis ; Angust.; Phos.;
Sil.
Chewing motion — Acon; Bell Bry, Helleb.; Stram.
Epulis— Plumb ac; Thuya
Hanging down, relaxed - Arn.; Ars.; Gels.; Helleb.;: Hyos.;
Lach , Lye.; Mur. ac., Op.
Nodes, painful - Graph .
Paip -— Caust.; Chin. +; Cinch Sil; Smg; Xanth. See
aws
Swelling - Amphis : Aur. m_ n.; Merc.; Phos ; Sil; Symphyt.
UPPER JAW — Affections of Antrum of Highmore: Chel.
Commocl.; Euphorb amyg.; Kalt 10od., Kah s.; Mag. c.
Merc. c.; Paris; Fiios., Tila
Pain — Astiag.; Caic. p; Euphorbia; Fluor. ac.; Mere wor.
Phos., Polygon.; Sig.
Tumor — Hekla.
MUSCLES — (facial) Distortion (risus sardonicus): Cre.
Cupr. ac; Hydroc. ac.; Ip; ec.; Stram.; Strych.

Pain — Anac.; Angust ; Coce.; Colch.; Oxytr.; Sab. Se
Prosopalgia.

Paralysis — Bell’s palsy: 4con., Alum.; Am. phos.; Bell.
Cadm, s.; Catst.; Coce; Cur.; Dule.; Formica; Gels.,
Graph.; Uyper.; Kali chlor.; Kali tod.; Mere. c. k.; Phy-
sal.; Rhus t., Ruta: Senega, Zine picr.

Left side — Cadm. s.; Senega.

Right side — Bell.; Caust.

Stiffness — .Absinth.; Acon.; Agor.; Bapt.; Caust.; Gels.
Helod.; Nux v.; Rhus t. See Trismus.

Twitching, spasmodic — Agar; Arg. n.;  Bell.; Caust.
Cham.; Cic.; Cima; Gels.; Hyos.; Ign.; Laburn.; Laur.
Menyanth.; Myg ; Nux v., Gnanthe; Op.; Sec.; Stram.
Tellur.; Visc. a.

PROSOPALGIA — Pain (face-ache):
TYPE — Congestive, inflammatory, neuralgic: 4con; Agar..
Aran.; -Arg. n.; 4rs.; Bell.; Cact.; Caps.; Caust.: Ced.,
848 FACE

Cepa; Cham, Chin, ars; Chin s., Cim.; Cinch.; Coff;
Col; Ferr: Gels , Wekla; Kah tod , Kali p.; Kali: Maga p,
Menthol; Merc c; Mere. s.; Mes; Nit. sp. di; Phos;
Plant.; Plat.. Puls; Radium; Rhodium; Rhus t.; Sang.;
Sil; Spig., Stann.; Sut; Thuya; Tiha; Verbasc.; Zine
.3 Zine. v.

Reflex, from decayed teeth —— Coff. tosta; Hekla; Mere. s.;
Mes.; Staph

Rheumatic - .fcon , Act  sp.3 Caust ; Cham; Colch; Col;

. Dule, Puls, Rhod, Rhus t.; Spig
Syphilitic (mercurial) Nall tod , Mev; Nit ac
Toxic (malarial, quinine)— Ars ; Cinch., lpce ; Nat. m
LOCATION — Eyes: Ars.; Cuon.; Clem.; Nux v.; Paris; Spig ;
Thuya See Hyes

Jaw, lower - -<Implis ; Calc c.; Lach; Nit. sp d; Plat;
Radium; Rhod., Xanth; Zine. v

Jaw, upper — -lmphis., Bism.; Cale. caust; Cham., Col,
Dule ; Liuphorb amyg.; Graph. ; Tris; Kult cy.; Kah wa,
Kal, Kreos , Mez.; Pars; Thuya;: Verlas:

Jaw, upper, (infra-orbital) —Colch.; Iris; Mes.; Nux v;
Phos.; Verbase.

Jaw, upper, to teeth, temples, ears, eyes, malar bones --
alct, spo; Arg. mu. Ars; Bell; Bism., Cham., Clem...
Coff.; Col.; Dule; Kali cv.; Mez.; Phos.; Plant.; Rhod ;
Sang.; Spig.; Thuya; Verbasc.

Malar bones (zygoma) -~- Angust.; Arg. m.; Aur; Calc.
caust, Caps; Crm, Col: HWydrocot.; Leeith.; Menthol
Ol an.: Mag. c.; Mez; Paris; Plat.; Rhus t., Sphingur
Spiaq, Strych., Thuya; | ervasc.; Zine m.

Unilateral, left --4con.; Arg n.; Col, Coral: Ifvdrocot ;
faci., Paris; Plat; Sapon.; Senec.; Spig.; Verbasc :
nine, Vv

Unilateral, right —-.Aran.; Cact.; Caps.; Ced.: Clem; Coff.;
Coleh ; Uyper.; Aal.; Mag. p.; Mes., Puls

TYPE OF PAIN—Cramp-like drawing, pressing: August.;
Bism ; Bry ; Cact.; Coce.; Col; Mez., Plat.; Thuya; Ver.
a; Verbase.

Cutting, tearing, Jerking, stitching, rending - Acon.; Am-
pies 3 Ars Aur; Caust.: Cham > Cinch.; Col, Dulce;
fag. p.: Mere; Mez.; Nux v.; Phos.; Puls.; Rhodium;
Rhod.; Senee.; Sil; Spic.

Fine line of pain coursing along the nerve — Caps.; Cepa

Gradual onset and cessation - Plat, Stann.

Gradual onset and sudden cessation ~ Arg. m.; Bell, Puls.

Hot needles, penetrating —- .\1s.

Icy needles, penetrating — Agar.
cinating, paroxysmal, lightning-like, radiating —Arg. 0.;
Ais.; Bell., Coce.; Col; Gels.; Graph.; Hep.. Kal tod.;
Kreos ; Magy p., Nua v.; Phos: Rhodium; Sang,; Spig.,
Strych . Zinc. m.

Periodical, intermittent — Cact.: Ced.; Chin. s.; Cinch. ; Col.;
Graph.; Mag p.; Stiy.; Ver. a; Verbase

CONCOMITANTS — Acid, sour eructations: Arg. n.; Nux
Verbasc.
Canine hunger, preceded bv coldness — Dulc.
Cataryrh (coryza, lachrymation) —- Verbasc.
FACE 849

Chilliness --- Col.; Dulc.; Mez., Puls.; Rhus t.
Gastralgia, alternating — Bism.
Lachrymation — Bell.; Jpec.; Nux v.; Puls.; Verbase.
Mental irritability— Cham.; Coff.; Kreos.; Nux v.
Numbness — 4con.; Menthol; Mez.; Plat.; Rhus t.
Photophobia — Nit. sp. d.
Ptosis — Gels.
Restlessnes, palpitation — Spig.
Salivation, stiff neck — Mcz,
Tenderness to touch — Avon; Bell.; Cinch; Col.; Hep.;
Mez.; Paris; Spig.; Vetbasc.
Twitching about face— Colch.; Kali oc; Nux v.;\ Thuya;
Zinc. m.
Vision veiled— Tilia
MODALITIES — Aggravation: From acids, motion, emotion:
all Cc.
From chewing, opening mouth — Angust.; Cocc.;  Helleb.;
Hep.; Mez.
From cold, dry exposure —- <icon.; Coff ; Kal., Mag c; Mag.
p.; Nit sp
From cold, wet exposure — Col; Dulc.; Rhus t.; Stl.; Spig.;
huya
From contact, touch ---Bell.; Caps.; Cinch.; Col; Cupr. m.;
Hep; Mag. p; Mez.; Paris; Spig., Verbase.
From eating, drinking — Piem : Iris: Mes
From eating motion — Coi; Phos.; Verbasc.
From eating, motion, stooping, jar, etc.-~ Bell.; Fecr. p.;
pig.
From morning until sunset- - Spig. .
From motion, noise — .\1s; Chin. s3; Cimch; Spry.
From pressure -—- Caps
From rest — Mag. c.: Plat; Rhus t.
From ealking, motion, sitting or lying on unaffected side
— Kreos.
From talking, sneezing, change of temperature, pressure
of teeth --- Verbace,
From tea— Selen.: Thuya
From thinking of pain — Aur.
From tobacco — Sep.
From warmth— Cham; Glon.; Kali s.; Merc. s.; Mez.;
us.
In afternoon — Cocc.
In daytime — Ced ; Spig.
In evening, night— 4rs., Caps; Mag c.; Merc. s.: Mez.;
Puls.; Rhus t.
AMELIORATION — From chewing ---Cupr. ac.
From cold applications, cold— Lism.; Clem.; Kali p.; Puls.
From eating— Rhod.
From motion; open air —- Thuya
From pressure — Cinch.; Col., Rhod.
From rest— Col ; Nux v
From rubbing — Acon. i fist. Col
rom warmth— Ars.; Calc. c¢; Col.; Cupr. ac.; Mag. ~.;
Mez.; Thuya. See Modalities. P oo. ?
SENSATIONS — Burning heat: gar.; Agrost.; Ant. c.; Ars.s
Arum; Canth.; Caps.; Cham.; Euphorbia: Kali c.; Nat. ec:
Sang.; Senega; Sil.; Stront.; Sul, Viola tr
850 FACE

Cobwebs dried on, as if — Alum.; Bar. c; Bor.; Brom.;
Euphorbia, Greph ; Phos. ac.; Ran. s.

Coldness — Abrot ; Agar.; Amt. t.; Camph.; Carbo v.; Dros.;
Helod ; Phos. ac; Plat.; Ver. a. Sec Hippocratic Face.

Contracted, wrinkled feeling, in forehead —Bapt.; Bells,
Grat.; Helleb., Phos.; Primula.

Formication (numbness, tingling, crawling)— Acon.; Agar.;
Colch ; Gymnocl.; Helod. yr.; Nux v.; Plat.

Itehing — Agar. ; Ant, 6.3 Mes.; Myr.; Nat. m.; Rhus t;
Sep.; Stront.

TIC-DOULOUREUX — Acon.; Aconit.; Ananth.; Arg. n.; Ars.;
Bell, Caps 5 Cim ; Coccinel ; Colch., Cupr m.; Gels.;
Glon ; Graph.; Kah c.; _Kali “chlor.; Kah 10d.; Mag. p.,
Mez.; Nat. s.; Nux v.; Phos.; Rhus t; Sep ; Stann ;
Staph ; Sul; Strvch.; Tuva: Verbasc., Zinc. m. See
Prosopalgia, Trifacial Neuraigia.
MOUTH

BREATH, cold -— Ant t; Ars; mph.; Carbo v.; Cistus:
Cupr. m.; Euphorb. dath ; Helod” Jatropha; Tab. Tereb ,
er. a

Breath, offensive (fetor oris) — Abies nj; Alum.;  Anac.;
ant. c., Arn; Ars. tur, Bapt.; Bor, Bry.; Cale c,
Caps; Carb ac., Carbo v.; Chel ; Cinch ; Cistus; Daphne,
Graph.; We lleb ; Hep , Indol, Jod , Kalagua; Kali chlor ,
Kal per.; Kali p: Aah tell, Kreos; Uach.; Merc. c.;
Merc. cy.; Merc di: Merc. s, Mur. ac.: Nat, tell.; Nit.
aus Nur iw, Petrol., Phyt, Puls., Quercus; Rheum;
Sz pes Sinap.; Sprg.; Stann.; ; Sul. ac.

Breath offensive, after meals cnly —Cham.; Nux v.; Sul.

Breath offensive, in evening or night —- Puls ; Sul.

Breath offensive, in girls at puberty -- Aur. m.

Breath offensive, in morning only —-.{rn., Bell.; Nux v.;

EXTERNAL. ‘MOU1H — Commissures (corners): Color: pearly
white about: ith.; Cina, Santon.

Color, yellow about — Sep.

Cracks, ulcerations —— Am. m; Ant. c ; Ars.; Arum; Arundo;
Bov ; Condur , Echin.; Kup perf.; Graph.; Hep., Nat.
ine; Nit. ac: , Betrol 5 Rhus t, Sec .

Eruptions around— A nt. c., .4rs; Aster.; Echin.: Graph;
Hep., Mez.; Mur. ac; Mat m.; Petrol.; Senega.

LIPS — Black: —Ars, Bry; Merc. c., Vipera.

Blue, cyanosed = Ats.; 3; Camph ; Carbo an.; Carbo v.; : Cupr.

mt ; Cupr. s.; Dig.; Uydroc. ac.; Sec.; Ver. a.; Zinc. See
‘ace

Burning, hot, parched — Acon.; Arn.; Ars.; en Bry.;
Caps ; Ilic.; Nat. m.; Phos.; Rhus t.; Sul. ;

Cancer '- Acct. ac, -trs; Ars. i0d.; Clem.; Commocl.; Con-
dur.; Con.; Hydr.; Kreos.; Lye; Sep.; Tab.; Thuya.

Chewing motion — ‘Acon.; ; Bell.; Bry.; Helleb.; Stram.

Cold sores, herpes, hydros-— Agar : ‘Ars. Cale fl.; Caps.;
Dule.; Frax. am.; iep.; Med.; Nat. m.; Rhus t.; Rhus
ves Sep.; Sul. 10a ; Upas.

Cracks, ulcerations-— Ant. c.; drs.; Arum, Bry.; Carbo v.;
Carbon. s.;  Clem.; Condur.; Echin.; Glycerin; Graph ;
Kah bich.; Merc. pr. rub.; Mur. ac.; Nat. m.; Ni. ac.;
Phos.; Rhus t.; Sil.

Cracks, ulcerations in middle of lower lip— Am, c.; Graph.;
Hep ; Nat. m.; Puls.; Sep.

Distortion — Art v.; Cadm. s.; Cic.; Cupr. ac.; Cur.; Stram.

Dryness — Acon.; Ant. 3 Bry. Chionanth.; Cinch.; Euo-
nym.; Glycerin; Helleb.; Mur. ac.; Nat. m.; Nux m.;
Phos. ac.: Puls.; Rhus t.; Senec.; "Sep.; Sul; Zinc. m.
See Burning.

Eczema— Ant. c.; Aur. mur.; Bov.: Cale. ¢; Graph.; Lyce.;
Mez.; Rhus v.

Eruptions — Acne: Bor.; Psor.; Sars.; Sud. iod.

Exfoliation — Con.; Sep.
852 MOUTII

Foam at the mouth- Abunth; Cie, Cupr. ac.; Cupre im,
Hydro acs, Hyos, Lyssimi Usnanthe, Op Sce Con
vulsions (Nervous System).

Glued together — Can. ind

Licks them frequently: Puls

Numbness, tingling —-.Jecn . Crot, Echin; Nato om.

Pain, soreness --.frwin; Bor., Calo s, he ; Nat. m; Rius
t, Rhus v ; Sep.

Picks them until they bleed —- fruit, Wolleb ; Zine, m.

Red, bleeding -- alrum, Krcos.

Red, crimson - - Muc, Sud. Tub

Swelling--- Antipyr 3 ipts, Bov : Bry , Caps.; Medusa; Mere.
ce; Rhus u.; Vipera.

Swelling of lower —Tuls; Sep.

Swelling of upper —.Ajus. Pell., Cale. co; Jieh, Nat oc,
Nat m; Psor.: Rhus t.

Twitching, spasmodic duar., Ast. vy Cim. wels., Ign;
Myg; Niccol.; Op; Strych.

Ulcer, cancerous -- .\rs.

INNER MOUTH — (buccal cavity): Bleeding, after tooth
extraction: Arn.; Bov.; Cinch ; Ham

Burning, dmarting - Acon.: Apist Jes., drum: Nell; Lor.,
Bry Capes Canh., Caib ac: Carbo Vv Colch.: Ferr.

.3 Iris; Mere. c; Sang . Sul; Tarax., Vespa

Canker-sores — Agave. Ant. e, Arg ong Aro. Bor, Caps;
Carho v.; Echin 5 Vlydr ; Kali bich Kalt chlor., Lach ;
Lye , Mere. c.; Mere; Mur. ac; Nat. hypochlor.; Nat om:
Nit ac., Phyt: Sal ac, Sul ac.; Sul Sce Aphthous
Stomatitis.

Coldness -—- Camph ; Cistus, Coccinel,; Smap n.; Ver. a

Dryness -— 4con., Alum; Apis; irs. Belli; Bor; _Brv.;
Cupr., Dub; Hyos.; Iris ten.; Kah bich.; Kali p.; Lach.;
Lye.; Merce, ¢: Mere. per.; Morph; Mur. ‘ac.; Nat. m;
Nat. s.; Nur m.; Op.: Phos.; Puls.; Radium; Rhus t.;
Sang.; Senee.; Sep.; Tereb.

Dryness, with great thirst — Acon.; Ars.; Bry.; Rhus t.;
Sul.; Ver. a.

Dryness, yet no thirst-—-.fpis. Lach.; Ive.; Nux. m.; Paris;
Puis., Sabad.

Glands, salivary, cellular tissue inflamed — Anthrac.; Bry.;
Hep., Merc... Mur. ac

Inflammation (stomatitis) — in general: Acon.; Alum.; Arg.
n, Arum; HBapt.; Bell: Bor; Caps. ; Corn. ¢.;3 Hydr.
Kah chlor.; Kah m; Merc. c.; Merc. s.; | Nat. m.5 Nit. ac.
Nux v.; Ran. s; Sep; Simap. n.; Sul.; Sul. ac.; i Vespa.

Inflammation, aphthous (thrush) -—- Ath ; Ant. : Ars,
Bapt.; Bor., Bry.; Carbo v.; Fup. arom. ; Hydr.; “Liydrast
m.; Kah chlor; Kali m.; Mere. c., Merc. s., Mur. ac.
Nat m.; Nit. ac.; Rhus gl; Sars.; Sempern t; Sul. ac.
RY")

Inflammation, follicular, vesicular — Anac.; Ananth.; Canth.,
Caps. Kali chlor.; Hydrast. m.; Mag. c: Nat. m.; Mur.
ac.; Rhus t., Sul.

Inflammation, gangrenous (noma, cancrum oris) — Ars.;
Bapt.; Hydr.; Kat chlor.; Kali p.; Kreos.; Lach.; Merc.
co; Merc. s.; Mur. ac.; Sec.; Sul. "ac,
MOUTH 853

Inflammation, mercurial —- Bapt. Carbo v.; Hep.; Hydr.;
Mur. ac.; Net ac.

Inflammation, ulcerative --- Agave: Alnus; Arg. .; Ars.;
Arum, Bapt. Bor; Chior: Cuinnab.; Coryd.; Hep;
Hydrast. m.. Kah bich.; Kali chlor., Kali cy.; Mag. c.;
Menthol; Merc. c.; Merc. s.; Mur. ac.; Nit. ac.; Nit. mur.
ac.; Phos.: Rhus gl.; Sul. ac; Sulphurous ac; Tarax.

Itching —Arundo, Por Kal: bich.
Mucous membrane glossy, as if varnished - .4fis., Nit. ac.;
ereD.

Mucous membrane inflamed, from burns -~ Apis; Canth.

Mucous membrane pallid -- Morph.

Mucous membrane red, dusky -- dapt , Vach.; Morph ; Phyvet.

Mucous membrane red, tumid, with gray-based ulcers
-— Kali chlor. See Stomatitis.

Pan - Apw: Arum, Bell, Hep; Mere; Nit. ac; Upas.
See Stomatitis.

PALATE — Aphte: .\gave.

Blisters --- Nat. s.

Coating, creamy -— Nat. p.

Constriction, scratching --- Acon.

Dryness — Carbo an.

dema -- Apis

Elongated --~Strych. See Uvula

Itching, tickling ----drundo Gels; Wyeth.

Necrosis, caries — Aur ; Meic. cy

Red, swollen -— Acon; -tpis, eIrum, RBell., Fluor, ac.; Kal
tod.; Merc. c.

Ulceration, rawness - Ant ci: rum, Cinnab, Uen; Mere.
c.; Mere. per.; Nit. ac., Sul ac.; Tarax. See Throat.

Wrinkled; pain on chewing, nursing —— Bor.

PTYALISM — Saliva, increased: 4cet. ac, Allium s.; Anac.;
Ant. ¢., Arum, Bapt.; Bism.; Bry.; Cham.; Chionanth.;
Cinch.; Colch.; Cupr. m.; Daphne; Dig.; Dule.; Epiph.;
Euphorb.; Granat; Hep.; lod, Ipec, Iris; Jabor., Kah
chlor ; Kali tod.; Kali perm.; Lac c.; Lact. ac.; Lob. mf;
Merc c; Merce. cy., Mere. d; Mere. i. ry Merc. s, Mez.;
Muscar ; Nat. m., Nit. ac. Nit. mur. ac. Phos.: Piloc ,
Pod.; Ptel.; Puls., Sarg.; Sars.; Sep.; Sul.; Syph.; Tab.;
Trifol.

After eating —- Allium s.

During pregnancy — Acct. ac; Granat.; Jod ; Jabor.; Lact.
ac.; Merc.; Muscar.; Nit. ac.; Piloc ; Sep. See Pregnancy
(Female Sexual System)

During, sleep —-Cham., Coccinel.; Lact. ac.; Merc.; Rheum;

‘vph.

From’ mercurialization— Hep., lod: Ins: Kali chlor.; Nit. ac.

Saliva acrid, hot — Ars; Arum, Bor.; Daphne; Kals chlor.;
Kreos.; Merc.; Nit ac., Taxus.

Bitter — 4rs, Atham.; Bry.; Kali s.: Puls.; Sul.

Bloody — Antipyr.; Ars., Mag. c.; Merc.; Nit. ac.; Nux v.

FETID, offensive — Ars.; Jod., Kreos.; Mancin.; Mere. d;
Merc. s., Nit. ac., Pscer.; Rheum,

Frothy, cotton-like Alet.; Aqua mar.; Berb. v.;  Bry.;
Canth.; Lyssin; Nuv m., Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Sul.

Metallic — Bism.; Cham; Coce.; Cupr. m; Merc ; Nit. o¢.;

ine.
854 MOUTH

Milky — Plumb. oxy.

Mucus — Bell , Colch.; Dule.; Nit ac., Phos ac.; Phos.

uls.

Ropy, tenacious, slimy, soapy — Am.m; Ant. c.; Arg. n.
Dule.; Epph.; Hydrast. m.; Hydr.; Iod.; Iris; Kah bich.
Kali chlor.; Lyssin; Merc. s.; Merc. v.; Myr.; Nat. m.
Piloc ; Puls., Tarax,

Salty — Ant. c.; Euphorb.; Wact. ac.; Mere. c.; Nat. m.
Phos.; Sep

Sour — /ris, Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Paris; Pod.

Sweetish — Cupr. m.; Mere.; Plumb. ac.; Puls.; Stann.

Watery - Asar.: Bism.; Iod.; Jabor.; Lob. infi.; Nat. m.
Phos.; Trifol.

ULCERATIONS — Soreness of mouth: Alum; Arg. 2.; Ars.,
arum, Bor; Caps.; Ilep.; Hydrast. mur., Hydr.; Kal
chlor.; Merc c.; Merc. s; Mur. ac, Nit. ac.; Nux m.
Phyt.; Ran. s.; Rhus gl.; Semperv. t; Sinap. n.; Sul. ae.
Tarax. See Stomatitis (Ulcecrative).

Ulecerations, syphilitic mucous patches = C innah. Kali bich
Merc. c.; Merc. nit.; Mere. pr. rub.; Mere. s.; Nit. ac.
Still; Thuya. Sce Male Sexual System.

Varicose veins — Ambra; Thuya.
854 MOUTH

Milky — Plumb. oxy.

Mucus — Bell , Colch.; Dule.; Nit ac., Phos ac.; Phos.

uls.

Ropy, tenacious, slimy, soapy — Am.m; Ant. c.; Arg. n.
Dule.; Epph.; Hydrast. m.; Hydr.; Iod.; Iris; Kah bich.
Kali chlor.; Lyssin; Merc. s.; Merc. v.; Myr.; Nat. m.
Piloc ; Puls., Tarax,

Salty — Ant. c.; Euphorb.; Wact. ac.; Mere. c.; Nat. m.
Phos.; Sep

Sour — /ris, Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Paris; Pod.

Sweetish — Cupr. m.; Mere.; Plumb. ac.; Puls.; Stann.

Watery - Asar.: Bism.; Iod.; Jabor.; Lob. infi.; Nat. m.
Phos.; Trifol.

ULCERATIONS — Soreness of mouth: Alum; Arg. 2.; Ars.,
arum, Bor; Caps.; Ilep.; Hydrast. mur., Hydr.; Kal
chlor.; Merc c.; Merc. s; Mur. ac, Nit. ac.; Nux m.
Phyt.; Ran. s.; Rhus gl.; Semperv. t; Sinap. n.; Sul. ae.
Tarax. See Stomatitis (Ulcecrative).

Ulecerations, syphilitic mucous patches = C innah. Kali bich
Merc. c.; Merc. nit.; Mere. pr. rub.; Mere. s.; Nit. ac.
Still; Thuya. Sce Male Sexual System.

Varicose veins — Ambra; Thuya.
TONGUE

COATING — COLOR — Blackish Ars.; Bapt.; Camph.; Lach.;
Lyc.; Mere. c.; Merc. cy.; Mere d.; Mere. v.; Op.; Phos;
Rhus _t.; Vipera.

Bluish, livid, pale -— Ars.; Cupr. s; Dig.; Gymnocl.; Merc.
cy.; Morph, Op.; Mur. ac.; Sec., Ver. a.; Vipera.

Brownish — Am. c.; Ant. t.; 4Ars.; Bapt.; Bry.; Cupr. ars.;
Echin.; Hyos ; Med.; Alerc. cy., Morph.; Mur. ac.; Pho:
Sec.; Vipe:a.

Brown center -- Lapt., Phos: Plumb. m.

Brownish, dry — 4:i/, Ant t, Ars.; Bapt.; Bry.; Kali p.;
Lach, Rhus t.; Spong.; Tart. ac.; Vipera.

Clean — 4rs.; Asar., Cina; Cinch.; Corva.; Dig.; Ipec.; Mag.
p.; Nit. ac.; Por; Rhus t.: Sep.

Clean anteriorly, coated posteriorly -—- Nux v.

Clean at menstrual nisus, foul after flow ceases = - Scp.

Dark streak in center, typhoid tongue -— A:n.; Bapt.; Mur.
ac,

Flabby, moist, with imprints of teeth — Ais.; Chel.; Hydr.;
Kali bich , Mere. ¢.; Merc. d.; Merc. s.; Nat. p.; Pod.,
Py:., Rhus t., Same.; Stram ; Yucca.

Frothy, with bubbles on side ~- Nat m.

Furred—- Ant. t.; Ars., Bapt.; Canth.; Card. m., Chin. ars.;
Coca; Ferr. pier.; Gels; Guaiac.; Lyc.; Myr., Nux v;
Puls ; Rumex. See White.

Grayish-white base — hal: m.

Greenish —- Nat. 5 ; Plumb. ac.

Mapped — Ant. c.; 4rs. Aalt bich., Lach.; Merc. v.; Nat.
m., Nit. ac.; Ox. ac.; Phyt.; Ran. s; Rhus t; Yarar,
Tereb.

Red —-Acon.; Apis, Ars.; Bell.; Ror. ac.; Canth., Crot;
Gels.; Hyos.; Kal birch ; Lach.; Mere c.; Mez.; Nux. v.;
Pyr., Rhus t; Tereb

Red, dry, especially center — Ant. t.; Rhus t

Red edges — Amyg pers, Ant. t.; Ars.; Bapt.; Bell.; Canth.;
Card. m.; Chel., FEehin.; Kali bich.; Lae ¢; Iach.; Merc.
c.; Meic. 1 fl.; Merc.; Pod.; Rhus t., Rhus v; Sul.

Red edges, white center --- Bell.; Rhus t.

Red in center, or streaks — Ant. t.;  Avs.; Caust.; Crot.;

cr. Us

Red, papille pale, effaced — Allium s.

Red, papillz prominent — Ant. t.; Arg. n; Ars,; Bell; Kali
bich ; Lye.; Mez.; Nux m.; Ptel.; Tereb.

Red, raw — Ars.; frum, Canth.; Tarax.

Red, shining, glossy, as if varnished — Apis; Canth.; Crot ;
Jal.; Kal bich., ach; Nit. ac, Pyr.; Rhus t.; Tereb,

Red spots, sensitive — Ran s.; Tarar. Tereb.

Red tip — Amyg. pers.; irg. n., Ars.; Cycl.; Mere. i. f.;
Rhus t.; Rhus v ; Sul.

Red, wet, central furrow — Nit. ac.

Strawberry -- Bell.; Fiagar.; Sapon.

856 TONGUE

Unilateral --Daphac, Tob. imfi.; Rhus t.

White-furred, slimy, pasty —.\con.; isc.; Ant. c.; Ant.
t., Arg on.; Arn; Bapt; Bell., Bism.; Bry.; Cale. c3
Carbo v; Card. m.; Chel, Cinch ; Cycl.; Ferr ; Glon.;
Hedeoma; Hydr.; Ipee; Kah c.; Kal chlor.; Kali m;
Lac c.; Lob infl; Lye; Mere c.; Verc., Mez.; Nat. m5
Nux vi: Ox. ac; Paris; Petrol.; Phos.; Puls.; Sep.; Sul.

Yellow, dirty, thick coating — sc.; Bapt.; Bry.; Carbo v.;
Cham.; Chel; Chionanth.; Cinch., Ferr.; Hydr.; Indol;
Kal bic, Kali s.; Lept.; Lye.; Alere d., Mere. i. fi;
Merc.; Myr.; Nat. p; Nat. s.; Nux v.; Osétrya; Pod;
Puds., Sang.; Sul.; Yucca.

Yellow patch in center -~ Bapt ; Phyt.

CONDITIONS — Anesthesia - Carbon. s.

Atrophy -- Mur. ac.

Biting — Absinth.; IHydr.; Hyos.; Ign.; Illic.; Phos. ac.; See.

Burning, smarting, scalded feeling -— con.; Apis; _ Ars.;
Arum; Bapt.; Bell; Canth.; Caps.; Carbo an.; Caust.;
Col ; Jris; lyye.; Merc. c.; Mez.; Mfur ac., Nat. m.; Phos.
ac ; Pod.; Ran. s., Sang , Sinap.; Sul.

Burning tip-— drs, Bar. c.; Cale. ec; Iris; Physost ; Sang.;
creb.

Coldnessa — Acct. ac.; Camph.; Carbo v.; Cuistus; Helod.;
Hydroc. ac.; Sce 3 Ver. a.

Dryness -— .{con.; Ail; Ant. t.; Apis; Ars.; Bapt.; Pell.;
Bry ; Cale c.; Colch.; Hyos.; Kali bich ; Kah c; Tach;
Teonur ; Merc. ¢.3 Mere; Morph.; Mur. ac.; Nat. m3;
Nuvi om.; J’aris, Phos. ac.; Phos.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Sul.;
Tereb.; Ver. v.; Vipera,

ERUPTIONS, growths —Cancer: 4rs.: Aur; Aur. m. nu;
Crei.; Galum; Hoang nan; Kal chlor.; Kak cy.; Mur.
a, Semperv. t.; Thuya; Vib. pr.

Cracks, excoriations — Ananth.; 4rs., Arum, Arundo; Bapt.;
Bell., Bor. ac; Cham.; Kah bich.; Lach.; Leonur.; Nat.
m.; Nit. ac., Phyt.; Plumb. ac.; Ran. s.; RaAus t.; Rhus
v.; Semperv. t. See Ulcerations.

Epithelioma - Ars.; Carb. ac.; Chrom. ac.; Hydr.; Kali cy;
Mur, ac.; Thuya.

Furrows lengthwise, in wpper part —~ Merc.

Growths, nodules — Ars. hydr.; Aur.; Aur. m. n.; Castor.;
Gall. ap.; Mur. ac.; Nit. ac.; Thuya.

Psoriasis —- Cast. eg.; Kali bich.; Mur. ac.

Ranula — Ambra; Calc. c.; Ferr. p.; Fluor. ac.; Merc. 8.3
Nit. ac; Thuya.

Ring worm —- Nat. m.; Sanic

Ulcerations — Apis; Arg. n.; Ars.; Ars hydr.; Bapt.; Fluor.
ac; Kali bich.; Lyc.; Alere.; Mur. ac.; Nit. ac.; Nit. mur.
ac ; Sang n.; Semperv. t; Syph,; Thuya.

Ulcerations, syphilitic —-Aur.; | Cinnab.; Fluu:. ac.; Kali
bich.; Lach.; Mere.; Mez.; Ntt. ac.

Veins, varicose —- Ambra: Ham.; Thuya.

Vesicles, blisters — Am. c.; Apis; Bor.; Canth.; Carbo an;
Lacert.; Lye; Mere. per; Mur. ac.; Nat. p.; Nat. m.;
Nit. ac; Phyt, Rhus £3; Sul. ac; Sul; Thuya.

Warts -- Aur. mur.; Mang. ac.

Hard, induration of — Alumen; Cale. f.; Mur. ac.; Sem-
perv toy Su.

TONGUE 857

Heaviness — Caust ; Colch.; Gels; Guaco; Merc. per.; Mur.
ac.; Nux v.

Inflammation (glossitis) —Acon ; Ais, Ars; Bell ; Canth.;
Crot.; Lach., Merce. co; Mere; Mur. ac., Ov. ac.; Phyt;
Ran. s; Sul. ac., Vipera. See Sweiling.

Numbness, tingling --4con.; Con.;  Echin; Gels.: Ign.;
Merc. per.; Nat. m; Nux m.; Nux v.; Plat.; Radium;
duheum; Sec.

Pain — Acon.; Ars.; Aram; Bell.; Kali ars.; Kali 10d.; Nit.
ac.; Phyt.; Ruta; Semperv. t.; Thuya. See Soreness.
Paralysis Acon cam.; Acon.; Anac.; Arn.; Ars.; Bar. c;
Bell.; Bothrops; Can. ind.; Caust.; Cocc.; Con.; Cupr.;
Cur., Dule.; Gels.; Guaeo; Hyos.; Lach.; Lob. purp.;
Mur. ac.; Nux m.; Oleand.; Op.; Plumb. m.; See;

Stiam., Zinc. s See Nervous System.

Protrusion, difficult —- Anac.; Apis; Ars; Cale. ¢.3 Caust.;
Crot ; Dule.; Guaco; Gels., Hyos.; Lach.; Mere ; Mur, ac.;
Myg.; Nat. m.; Pyr.; Stram ; Sulphon; Tereb.

Protrusion, snake-like - - Absinth , Crot. Cupr.; Lach.; Lye;
Merc; Sanic.; Vipera.

Rawness, roughness -— Apis; 4rs.; Arum; Conth.; Dule.; Nit.
ac ; Phyt.; Ran s.; Tarax ; .

Sensation, as if hair on tongue -- Kali bich ; Nat. m.; Sil.

Sensation, as if swollen, enlarged -Absinth.; Aith.; Anac.;
Crot.; Nux v.; Ptci; Puls ;

Soreness — Apis. Arum, Cistus; Kali c.; Mere. ¢.; Mur. ac.;
Nit. ac ; Ox. ac.; Phelland.; Physost; Ran. s.; Rhus t;
Semperv. t.; Sep.; Sil; Tereb.; Thuya.

Spasm -- Acon.; Bell.: Ruta, Sec. See Trembling. .

Stiffness -— Con.; Vuk., Hyos.; Lae c.; Mere. 1. 1.3 Niccol ;
Sec.; Stram.

Swelling -—Acon.; Apis; Ars.; Arum; Aster.; Bapt.; Bell.;
Bism.; Cajup.; Cunth., Crot.; Fragar.; Kali tell.; Lach.;
Mag. p.; Merc. c., Mes.; Mur. ac.; CEnanthe; Ox. ac.;
Pelias; Ruta; Thuya: Vespa; Vipera.

Trembling — Absinth.; Agar.; Agraricm; Apis; Ars.; Pell.;
Gamph.; Caust.; Cham.; Gels.; Lach.; Merc. Plumb.;
tram.
TASTE

LOST ---lmyg per., Ant. c.; Bry.; Cycl.; Formal.; Gymnema;
usticia; Lyc.; Mag. c.; Mag. m.; Nat. m.; Pod.; Puls.;

ang ; Sil.; Sul.

PERVERTED — ALTERED —In general: AZsc.; Alum.; Ant
t., drg n., Arn.; Ars.; Calc. c.; Camph.; Carbo v.; Chel.;
Cinch.; Cycl.; Fagop.; Gymnema, Hydr.; Kah c.; Lye;
Mag c.; Mag. m.; Merc. c.; Merc. s.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.;
Nux v., Paris; Pod.; Puls.; Rheum; Sep.; Swuil., Zine.
mur.

After eating — Ars.; Carbo v.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Zine.

After sleep — Rheum.

Acid, astringent, sour -- Aloe; Am. c.; Calc. c.; Cabo _v.;
Cham.; Cinch.; Euphorbia; Tlep.; Hydr.; Ign; Iris; Kah
c., Tob. nfl; Lyc., Mag. c., Nat. p.; Nit. ac, Nux v.;
Phos, ac.: Phos.; Puls.; Sep.; Sul.

Bitter, bilious -- con.; Aloe; Ars; Atham.; RBapt.; Bry.;
Camph.; Card, m, Cham.; Chel., Cinch; Col., Cupr.;
Dig.; Hydr, Ipec.; Kali c.; Lye; Mere. c.; Mvr.; Nat.
m.; Nat. s.; Nux v.; Paris; Pod.; Ptel.; Puls; Rhus t;
Sabad.; Sep ; Stann.; Sul; Tarax.

Bitter from tobacco — Asar.; Euphras.; Puls.

Bloody-like — 4dlum.; Chel.; Kali c.; Mancin.; Nit. ac.; Sil;
Sul.; Trifol.; Zinc

Coppery, metallic — Aisc.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Bism.; Cocc.;
Cupr. ars.; Cupre m., Tyact. ac.; Loo. infl.; Merc c.; Nit.
mur. ac.; Nux v.; Rhus t.; Sul.

Delicate, changeable -— Coff.; Puls.

Disgusting, putrid, foul, slimy — <irn.; Aur. mur.; Bor.;

ale. c.; Carbo v.; Chel.; Ferr. m.; Graph.; Hep.; Indol;
Led.; Lemna m.; Lyc.; Merc. c.; Merc.; Nat. m; Nat. s.;
Nux v.; Petrol.; Phos.; Pod.; Puls.; Pyr.; Sep.; Yueca.

Flat, insipid, straw-like, pappy — 4nt. c.; Ant. t.; Ars.; Bapt.;
Bor.; Cinch., Cycl., Euphor. amyg.; Ferr. m; Glycerin;
Ign ; Kalis.; Nux m.; Puls.

Greasy, fatty, pasty -— Arn.; Carbo v.; Caust; Euonym.;

P Ol. an.; Phos i Puls.; Trill, cer.

eppery —- Hydr.

Perverted in morning -— Fagop.; Graph.; Hydr; Nux v.;

us.

Salty — Ant. c.; Ars.: Bell.; Cadm. s.; Carbo v.; Cinch.;
‘vel.; Merc. c.; Merc.; Puls.; Sep.; Sul: Zine. m.

Sweet - Agar.; Apee. andr.; Bism.; Chel.; Cupr. m.; Dig.;
Glycerin; Merc.; Nit. ac.; Phelland ; Plumb.; Puls.; Pyr.;
Sabad.; Selen.; Stann
GUMS

BLEEDING easily — Agave; Alum.; Ambra; Ant. ¢.; Arg. n.;
Arn.; Ars., Bapt.; Benz. ac.; Bor.; Cale. Pha Carbo v.;
Cistus; Echin.; Hep; ; Iod.; Kreos.; Wach.; Mere. c;
Merc.; Nut. ac.; Phos., Plant; Sep.; Sil.; Staph.; Sul. ac,
Sul.; Zine.

Bleeding protractedly, after tooth extraction — Ars ; Ham.;
Kreos., Trili

Blue line along margin —- Plumb

Burning —- Antypr. See Pain

Cold feeling — Coccinel

Epulis — Calc. c.; Plumb.; Thuya

Inflammation (gumboil) ---.4con.; Rell., Bor.; Cale. fi.;
Cale. s.; Cham.; Hekla, Hep.; Kroos, Merc, Mer,
Phos.; Rhus t; Sil. See Pain, Swelling.

Painful after tooth extraction — Arn.; Sep

Painful, sore, sensitive — Alum.; Am. c.; Arg n.; Bapt.;
Bell; Bor.; Caic. ¢; Carbo «., Caust.; Cham., Dolichos;
Hep.; Kreos , Merc., Nit. ac., Plant.; Rhus t.; Si., Sul.;

Thuya. '
Red seam (strophulus) --./ni co, Apis; Cham., Kah p.,
Puls ; Rhus t.
Scorbutic (soft, spongy, receding) —-Igave, Alum; | Ant.

c.; Arn.; Ars., Bapt.; Carbo v.; Cistus; Echin., Hep.;
Tod., Kali C3 Kali cnlor ; Kali ps Kreos,; Merc., Mur
ac., "Nat m.; Nit. ac.; Phos., Staph.; Sul.; Thuya.
Swelling -—— Apis, Bell, Bism.; Cale. c.; Caust.; Cham, Cis-
tus; Graph.; Kreos.; Lach.; Mag. m.; Mere. c.; Merc.
d.; Merc. 1. 7., Merc. v., Mur. ac.; Nit. ac.; Fhos.;
Plumb.; Rhod , Sep.; Sil-; Staph.; Sul.; Tereb,
Ulceration (pyorrheea alveolaris) - Aur.; Bapt., Carbo v.53
Caust., Cistus, Kemetine; Kah c; Kreos.; Merc. c.; Mere.;
Nit., ac., Phos; Plant.; Sep.; Sil ; Staph. : Sul. ac.; Thuya.
TEETH

ALVEOLAR abscess —- lfep.; Mere.: Sil

Black, dark, crumbling — Ant. c; Kreos.;  Merec.; Phos.
hydr.; Staph.; Syph.; Thuya.

Caries, decay, premature — Cale _c; Calc. fl; Calc. p.; Coce.;
Fluor. ac.; Hekla; Kreos.; Merc; \les.; Phos.; Plant.;
Sil; Steph.; Tub.

Caries at crown — Merc ; Stath.

Caries at root — Merc.; Mez.; Sil.; Syph; Thuya.

Cupped, dwarfed, serrated — Staph. ; yph,

DENTITION — (teething difficult, delayed): fcon., Bell.; Bor.;
Cale c, Cale. p., Caust.; Cham., Chenanth.; Coffs cpr,
Gels ; Hlekla, Kali br.; Kreos., Mag. p.; Mere; Nux v.;
Passifl.; Phyt; Pod ; Puls.; Si.; Solan. n; Staph.; Sul;
Tereb.; Zinc. br.; Zine m.

With cerebral, nervous symptoms — Agar; Bell, Clam.;
Cim.; Cyprip; Dolichos; Helleb., Kah br.; fod, Solan
nj; Tereb.: Zine.

With compression of gums — Cic.; Phyt.; Pod.

With constipation, general irritation, cachexia -— Krcos.;

Yux v3 Op.

With convulsions — Bell.; Cale. c.; Cham.; Cupr.; Kali br.;
Mag. p ; Solan. n.; Zinc. br.

With cough — Acon.: Bell.; Ferr. p.; Kreos.

With deafness, otorrhcea, stuffiness of nose — Cheiranth.

With diarrhea -- 7th.; Calc. ¢ ; Calc. p ; Cham.; Ferr. p.,
Ipec.; Kreos.; Mag. c.; Mere.; Oleand.; Phos.; Fod.;
Puls.; Rheum; Si.

With effusion threatened, in brain — Ap's; Helleb.; Tub.;

mc. mM,

With eye symptoms — Bell; Cale. ¢.; Puls.

With insomnia — Bell.; Cham.; Coff.; Cyprip., Kreos.; Pas-
sifl.; Seutel ; Tereb. .

With milk indigestion -- 7ich.; Calc. c.; Mag. m.

With Joakness, pallor, fretfulness, must be carried rapidly
—: Ars.

With worms -— (Cina; Merc.; Stann

FEEL cold — Coceincl.; Gamb.; Phos. ac.; Rheum.

Feel loose -- Alum.; Am. c.; Arn.; Bism.; Cale fl.; Carbo
v.; Hyps.; Lye; Vere. c.; Merc.; Nit. ac.; Plant.; Rhus
t.; Sil; Zine.

Feel numb -— Plat

Feel sensitive to cold, chewing, touch - 4cen ; Ars: Bell.;
Carbo v.; Cham.; Coff., Fluor ac; Gymnocl.; Merc.;
Parth.; Piant.; Staph. See Pain.

Feel too long— Bry. Carbo v.; Caust.; Cham.; Clem.; Lye;
Mag. c.: Merc.; Mez.; Parth.; Plant.; Rhus t.

Feel warm = - Fluor. ac.

FISTULA DENTALIS -~ Calc. f.; Caust; Fluor. ac.; Nat. m.;
Su.; Staph.: Sul.

GRINDING -Ap:s: Bell. Can. ind.: Cie; Cina: Heileb.;
Myg.; Phvst; Plant.; Pod ; Santon, Zine.
TEETH 861

ODONTALGIA — Toothache — Remedies in general: Aceon;
Agar.; Ant. c; Antipyr ; Apis; cirs., Atiop.. Bell., Bry..
Calc ¢; Carb. ac; Carbo v; Cham.; Clem.; Coccinel.
Coff.; Col; Fer:. m.; Gels.; Glon.; Hekla; Ign.; Kali c.
Kreos., Lach ; Mag. c.; Mag. p.; Merc.; Nux v.; Ox. ac.
Phos.; Phyt.; Plart.; Puls.; Sep.; Spig.; Staph.; Tab.
Ther.; Thuya.
CAUSE — Coffee: Cham., Ign.
Cold bathing — Ant c.
Decayed teeth — Cham ; Kegos Mere.; Mez.; Staph.
Dental pulp, inflamed — Bell. .
Drafts, or cold exposure —.fion, Bell; Bry.; Cale. c.;
Cham.; Merc.; Puls. Rhod : Sil
Extraction of teeth -~ Ain., Staph.
Menses, during -- Bar. C5 Cham.: ; Sep; Staph.
Pregnancy -— Alum; (ale. c.,. Cham., Vag. c.; Nux ms;
Puls ; Sep.; Tab See Female Sexual System.
Tobacco-smoking ~ Clem ; Ign.; Plant, Spig.
Washing clothes — Phos.
LOCATION — Decayed teeth: nt. c ; Cham.; Kreos.; Mag. ¢.;
Merc ; Mez., Nux v.; Staph ; Thaya.
Eye-teeth - Ther
Lower — Antipy: , Caust, Mere; Staph.
Molars-— Antipyr , Bry.; Caust.
Roots of teeth -Meph.; Merc. Staph.
Sound teeth -— Arg n.; Cast; Cham.; Plant.; Spig.; Staph.
Upper teeth — Bell,; Fluo. ac
TYPE — Neuralgic, congestive: -fcon , Aran; Ars.; Rell. ; Ced.;
Cham , Cop; Dolichos. Ferr pier; Ign.; Mag. c.; Mag.
De Plant.; Sp. Sec Odontalgta
Rheumatic — \con.; Bry, Cham.; Chin s; Colch.; Guaiac.;
Metc.: Puls., Rhod
TYPE OF PAIN — Aching: Cham.; Kieos.; Merc.; Staph.
Burning -- Ars., Bel! ; Sil
Drawing, jerking, tearing - Bell, Cham.; Chimap.; Coff.;
Cyel.; Kreos.; Meph 5 Merc.; Nux v.; Prun. sp; Puls.;
Rhod ; Sep.; ‘sn; Spig.: ; Sul
.Gnawing’ boring ---Cale, ¢, Carbo +. -; Mez.; Nux v.; Plant.;
Puls.; Sil.; Staph.
Periodical -'Ars.; Chin s.; Coff
Shock-like — Am oc; Aran; Nux vy.
Shooting - Calc. c.; Cham., Kali c.; Mag. c.; Nux v.; Phos;
Sep; Sul.
Stitching -- Bry ; Cham.; Nit ac.; Puls.
Throbbing — Acon ; 3. Bell, Coceinel ; Glon.; Mag. ¢.; Mere;
Si. See Odontalgia.
CONCOMITANTS — Distraction of the mind: Acon.; Cham.
Heat, thirst, fainting — Cham.
Neuralgia of lids, reflex — Plant.
Rush of blood to head, loose feeling of teeth -— Hyos.
Soreness of teeth - Bell.; Meic.; Plant.; Zinc, m.
Swelling about jaws, cheeks -- Bell. Bor, Cham.; Hekla;
Hep.; Lye; Merc.; Stl See Gumboil,
MODALITIES — AGGRAVATION — After midnight: Ars.
At night — Ant. c; Aran., Bell.: Caust.; Cham.; Clem.; Mag.
c., Merc Mez.. [uls., Sep 3 Sil., Sul.
862 TEETH

From change of weather — Aran.: Merc , Rhod.
From cold foods, drinks — Cai c., Cham., Lach.; Merc.,
Nur v.; Sul.
From cold in general — 4nt. c.; Calc. c.; Hyos.; ; Lye.; Mag.
c.3; Mere; Nux v., Plant.; Sil., Spig; Sul.
From contact, touch — Bell.; Cale fl, Caust.; Cinch.; Plant.;
taph.
From eating — Ant. ce Bell; Bry ; Calc. c.; Cham.; Chi-
map.. Kali c. Nux v.; Puls., Sil., Spig., Staph ; Zine,
From exertion of mind or body -- Chimap.; Nux v.
From lying down, rest, quiet — 4ran., Mag. c; Nat. s.;
Katonh.; Sep.
From shrill sounds — The
From smoking, tobacco ~~ Clem.; Ign ; Sprg.
From warm food — Bism., Bry.; Cale. c; “ Caust ; Clem.;
Coff, Mere.; Puls.; Sil,
In intervals between meals — Ign.
In morning — Hyos.
Warmth in general — Cham.; Merc.; Prun. sp.; Puls.; Sep.
AMELIORATION — Cold air: Puls.
Cold drinks — Bism.; Bry.; Chimap.; Coff.; Ferr. m.; Ferr.
p.; Nat. s.; Puls.
Eating — Ign . Plant.; Spig.
Hot liquids —- Mag f;
Pressure external — Bry.; Cinch.
Pressure of teeth —- Cinch ; Ol. an.; Staph.
Rubbing cheek —- Merc.
Sweat in general — Cham.; Chenop. gl.
Walking about — Mag. c.; Ratanh.
Warmth — Ars.; Cinch., Lye., May. f, Mere, Nux v.
Wet finger — Cham.
RIGG’S DISEASE — Cale. ren.; Merc.; Sil. mar.
SORDES and deposits — 4:/.;  Alum.; Ars.: Bapt; Echm.;
Hyos.: Jod ; Kali p.; Merc. c.; Mur. ac, Phos. ac.; Plant.;
us ft.
THROAT

ADENOID VEGETATIONS — 4graph.; Cale. c.; Cale f.; Cale.
tod, Cale p., Chrom. ac.; Iod.; Kah s.; Lob. syph.;
Mez.; Psor.; Sang. n., Sul; Thuya. .

DIPHTHERIA — Remedies in general: Ail.; 4fis; Ars.; Ars.
iod ; «Asrum, Bapt; Bell, Brom, Cale. chlor., Canth ;
Carb. ac.; Crot, Diph., Echin, Guaiac.; Kali bich ; Kali
chlor., Aealt m.; Kali per., Lac c; Lach., Lachnanth ;
Led; Lob inl; Lve; Mere c., Merc. cv., Mere. i. fl;
Mere i r.; Mur. ac.; Naya; Nit. ac , Phyt.; Rhus t.;
Sang.; Sul.; Tar. ¢.; Vinca

TYPE — Ataxic: Ars.; Bell; Lach.; Mosch.; Phos.

Laryngeal Apis; Brom., Canth.; Chlorum; Diph.; Hep.;
Tod.; Aah bich.; Lac c.; Merc. cy., Petrol.; Phos.; Samb.;
Spong. .

Malignant 41/, Apis, Ars; Carb. ac.; Chin. ars.; Crot.;
Tiph ; Echin., Kah pi Lac c; Lach ; Mere. cy... Mur. ac.

Nasal «im oc, Am. caust, Wal lich.; Lye; Mere. cy.;
Nit. ac.

CONDITIONS — Extension downwards: Jod.; Kal bich. ;
Lac c; Merc. cy

Extension left to right — Lac c.; Lach.; Sabad.

Extension right to left --Lyc.

Extension upward -— Brom.

With croup -—.\cet. ac, Brom.; Hep; Iod.; Kali bsch.; Kali
m; Tach.; Merc. cy.; Phos ; Samb.; Spong.

With drooling — Lac c; Merc. cy

With objective symptoms only; painless type; deficient
reaction — Diph.

With post-diphtheritic paralysis — Arg. n.; Caust ; Cocc.;
Con.; Diph.; Gels. Kali p.; Lach; Phos., Plumb.; Rhus

t.; Sec.

With prostration from beginning --.Ail.; pis; Ars.; Bapt.;
Canth ; Carb. ac.; Ciot.; Diph; Kah per.; Lach; Merc.
cy ; Mur. ac; Phyt.

With spasm of glottis -~ Mosch.; Samb.

With urine scanty —- Apis; Ars.; Canth.; Lac c.; Mere. cy.

OESOPHAGUS — Burning, qmarting: Acon; _ Am. caust.;
Asaf.; Ars.; Canth.; Caps.; Carb. ac.; Crot. ¢.; Gels.;
Ins; Merc. c.; Mez.; Ox. ac.; Phos.; Sinap. a.; Strych.

Constriction — Abies n.; Alum.; Am. m.; Asof.; Bapt.; Bell.;
Cact.; Cajup.; Caps.; Cic.; Condur.; Gels.; Hyos.; Ign.;
Lyssin; Mere. c.; Naja; Phos.; Plat.; Plumb.; Rhus t.;
Stram.; Ver. v.

Dryness —— Acon.; Bell ; Cocc.; Mes.; Naja.

Inflammation (esophagitis) — Acon.; Alum; Ars.; Bell.;
Merc. c.; Naja; Phos.; Sul. ac.

Fain _ 4m rest Coe. Gels. 5 Phos.

pasm esophagismus) — Aconitin; Arg. 3. Asaf.; Bapt.;
Bell ; Canth.; Cic.; Hyos.; Ign.; Lach. ‘Lyssin; More
c.; Naja; Stram.; Strych; Ver. v. See Pharynx.
FAUCES — Anesthesia: Kali br.
864 THROAT

Burning heat -- .4con , Esc; Canth, Caps.; Carb. ac.;
Gels.; Phos.; Phyt., Simap. n.;_ Stl.

Dryness ~~ Acon.; Zisc., Bell., Canth.; Caps.; Gels.; Jugl.
c; Nux m.; Phos.; Phyt.; Sabad., Senec.

Inflammation - Ail.;| Bell.; Ferr. p.; Kale bich.; Menthol;
Mere. i. f1.; Mere s.

Necrosis Merc cy.

Redness - Bell, Carb. ac; Ferr. p.;/ Gymnocl.; Menthol;
Mere. cy.; Merc, i. 7; Mez.; Naya; Puls.

Roughness, sensitive -— ‘Esc.; Coccus; Dros.; Nux v.; Phos.;

hyt

Tingling —- 4con ; Echin.; Phyt.

Ulceration — Coryd.; Kali bach; Nit. ac; Sang. See
Pharynx.

PHARYNX — Abscess (retro-pharyngeal): Antipyr.; Bell;
Biy.; Hep.; Lach.; Merc.; Nit. ac.; Phos ; Stl.

Abscess, predisposition to —- Calc. ¢.; Calc. tod.; Ferr. p.3

ah 1od.; Sil.

Adherent crusts -— Kali bich.; Kah m.

Anesthesia --- Gels.; Nal: br.

Burning, smarting, scalded feeling -- Acon.; = 4/sc.; Am.

caust.; Apis; rs; Ars. 10d.; Arum. Aur, Bar c.; Bell.;
Camph ; Canth., Caps, Carb, ac., Caust., Cucame; Con.;
~Glycerin: Guaiac.; Hydr.; Jr; Kah bich ; Kal per.;
Kieos.; Lye; Were. «, Mere. 1 f.; Mere, Mez , Nit. ac;
Phos., Phyt., Pop. c.; Quill., Sang., Sang. n., Senec.;
Sul., Wyeth.

Coldness - Cistus

Constriction, spasmodic —- Acon.; Aésc.; Agar; Alum.;
Apis; «irg. n., Ars; Arum; Asaf.; Bapt.; Bell.; Bothrops;
Cact; Cale oc; Cajup.; Canth.; Caps, Cic., Cocaine;
Cupr. m.; Hyos.; Ign.; Lach; Merc. c.; Mez.; Morph ;
Nux v.; Phyt; Plumb. m.; Puls.; Ratanh.; Sang.; Sang.
n.; Sarcol. ac; Stram.; Strych.; Sumb.; Val.

DYSPHAGIA — Deglutition painful, difficult: Remedies in
general: Agar; Ail; Jum... Amyg. pets; Anac; Apis;
Ars.; Atrep, Bapt., Bell; Bothrops; Bry : Cajup.; Canth.;
Caps.; Carb ac; Cice.; Coce ; Con; Cocaine; Cur ; Dub;
Fluor. ac.; Grat, Hep; Hydroc. ac.; Hyos.; Ign.; lod.;
Kah bich ; Kah br.; Kali ¢.: Kali chlor.; Kal m.; Kali
erm; Lae c.; Lach.; Lye.; Lyssin; Merc. c.; Mere. cy.;3

ere. i. fl, Mere. 1 13 Mere. s.; Mere v.; Nat. p.; Nit.
ac: Phos.; Phyt.; Pop. c; Sang.; Sang, n.; Senec.;
, Stram ; Strych.

Can swallow only liquids — Baft.; Bar. c.; Cham.; Nat. m;
Plumb 3 Sil.

Can swallow only solids, liquids descend with dithcuity —
allamen, Bell; Bothrops; Cact; Cunth., Crot.: Gels.;
Hvos : Ign.; Lach; Teysain; Merr. ¢, Sil

Choking when eating, drinking — Abies n; Anac.; Cajup.;
Can. s.° Glon.; Kavar Merce. c.; Mur. ac.; Niccol.; Nit.
ac.; Phyt., Santonu.; Sumb.

Food descends “wrong way” — Anar.; Can. s.; Kali c.;
‘ Meph.; Nat. m.’

Food regurgitates, per nasum — Bell., Diph.; Kali perm.;
Lach., Veye.; Mere c.; Mere. v.
864 THROAT

Burning heat -- .4con , Esc; Canth, Caps.; Carb. ac.;
Gels.; Phos.; Phyt., Simap. n.;_ Stl.

Dryness ~~ Acon.; Zisc., Bell., Canth.; Caps.; Gels.; Jugl.
c; Nux m.; Phos.; Phyt.; Sabad., Senec.

Inflammation - Ail.;| Bell.; Ferr. p.; Kale bich.; Menthol;
Mere. i. f1.; Mere s.

Necrosis Merc cy.

Redness - Bell, Carb. ac; Ferr. p.;/ Gymnocl.; Menthol;
Mere. cy.; Merc, i. 7; Mez.; Naya; Puls.

Roughness, sensitive -— ‘Esc.; Coccus; Dros.; Nux v.; Phos.;

hyt

Tingling —- 4con ; Echin.; Phyt.

Ulceration — Coryd.; Kali bach; Nit. ac; Sang. See
Pharynx.

PHARYNX — Abscess (retro-pharyngeal): Antipyr.; Bell;
Biy.; Hep.; Lach.; Merc.; Nit. ac.; Phos ; Stl.

Abscess, predisposition to —- Calc. ¢.; Calc. tod.; Ferr. p.3

ah 1od.; Sil.

Adherent crusts -— Kali bich.; Kah m.

Anesthesia --- Gels.; Nal: br.

Burning, smarting, scalded feeling -- Acon.; = 4/sc.; Am.

caust.; Apis; rs; Ars. 10d.; Arum. Aur, Bar c.; Bell.;
Camph ; Canth., Caps, Carb, ac., Caust., Cucame; Con.;
~Glycerin: Guaiac.; Hydr.; Jr; Kah bich ; Kal per.;
Kieos.; Lye; Were. «, Mere. 1 f.; Mere, Mez , Nit. ac;
Phos., Phyt., Pop. c.; Quill., Sang., Sang. n., Senec.;
Sul., Wyeth.

Coldness - Cistus

Constriction, spasmodic —- Acon.; Aésc.; Agar; Alum.;
Apis; «irg. n., Ars; Arum; Asaf.; Bapt.; Bell.; Bothrops;
Cact; Cale oc; Cajup.; Canth.; Caps, Cic., Cocaine;
Cupr. m.; Hyos.; Ign.; Lach; Merc. c.; Mez.; Morph ;
Nux v.; Phyt; Plumb. m.; Puls.; Ratanh.; Sang.; Sang.
n.; Sarcol. ac; Stram.; Strych.; Sumb.; Val.

DYSPHAGIA — Deglutition painful, difficult: Remedies in
general: Agar; Ail; Jum... Amyg. pets; Anac; Apis;
Ars.; Atrep, Bapt., Bell; Bothrops; Bry : Cajup.; Canth.;
Caps.; Carb ac; Cice.; Coce ; Con; Cocaine; Cur ; Dub;
Fluor. ac.; Grat, Hep; Hydroc. ac.; Hyos.; Ign.; lod.;
Kah bich ; Kah br.; Kali ¢.: Kali chlor.; Kal m.; Kali
erm; Lae c.; Lach.; Lye.; Lyssin; Merc. c.; Mere. cy.;3

ere. i. fl, Mere. 1 13 Mere. s.; Mere v.; Nat. p.; Nit.
ac: Phos.; Phyt.; Pop. c; Sang.; Sang, n.; Senec.;
, Stram ; Strych.

Can swallow only liquids — Baft.; Bar. c.; Cham.; Nat. m;
Plumb 3 Sil.

Can swallow only solids, liquids descend with dithcuity —
allamen, Bell; Bothrops; Cact; Cunth., Crot.: Gels.;
Hvos : Ign.; Lach; Teysain; Merr. ¢, Sil

Choking when eating, drinking — Abies n; Anac.; Cajup.;
Can. s.° Glon.; Kavar Merce. c.; Mur. ac.; Niccol.; Nit.
ac.; Phyt., Santonu.; Sumb.

Food descends “wrong way” — Anar.; Can. s.; Kali c.;
‘ Meph.; Nat. m.’

Food regurgitates, per nasum — Bell., Diph.; Kali perm.;
Lach., Veye.; Mere c.; Mere. v.
THROAT 865

Liquids descend with gurgling sound — Ars.; Cupr. ac.; Hy-
droc ac; Laur, Thuya.

Swallows food and drink hastily --- Anac.; Bell ; Biy.; Coff.;
Helleb.; IZep., Oleand.; Zine m.

DEPOSITS — Membranous -- ‘ict ac ; Apis; Brom ; Cab. ac.;

Kah bich.; Kali m.; Kah perm; Dach.; Mere. cy.; Mur.
fac.; Nit. ac.; Phvt 9 See Diphtheria

Dryness) - Acon.; 4sc.; Agar.; Alum.; Apis; Ars.; Asaf.;
Atrop., Bell, Bry.; Canth.; Caps.; Caust.; Cistus, Co-
eaine; Coce; Dub.; Ferr. Re; Guaiac.; Hep.; Hyos; Jus
ticia; Kali bich ; Kali c: Kali chlor.; Lach.; Lemna m3
Ieve.; Mere. c.3 Mere. pers: Mere ; Mez: Jforph.; Nat. m.;
Nat. s.; Nit. ac, Nuwrom, Onosm.; Phos.: Phyt., Puls;
Quill; Sabad , Sang.; Sang n.; Sarcol. ac.; Sep.; Spong.,
Stryeh 5; Sul; Tveth

Edema - Ail; 4 pis; Ars.; Kali perm.; Jach.; Mag. p.; Mur.
ac.. Nat. ars.; Phos; Phyt.; Rhus t.

Erysipelas —.4pis, Bell, Canth ; lach.; Rhus t

Globus hystericus — .fmbra, Aawi.: Asaf, Pelli; Gels;
dyn, Kah p; Lach; Lob. infl; Mag. m.; Mancin.; Afosch.;
Nux m.; Plat.; Raph; Val. Sec Hysteria.

HAWKING — Hemming (clearing throat): — 2sc., Alum.; Am.

m; Arg m.; Arg. n, Arum, Bry.; Cale cj; Canth ; Carbo
v., Caust.: Cistus; Coce.; Coccus; Con; Coral , Fueal ;
Guarac ; Gymnocl.; Hepf., Hepat.; Wydr.; Iberis; Justicia;
Kali bich ; Kali c3 Kah m., Lach; Lyc; Mere i fl;
Merc. i. v ; Nat _c., Nat m.; Nit. ac 5 Nuxv; Phos , Phyt.;
Psor; Selen.; Sep; Silph s.; Spong.; Stanna.; Sul; Tab.;
Trifol pr.; Vinca m.; Viola tr.; M’yeth. See Chronic Phar-
yngitis

Hawking with cheesy, fetid, lumps --- Agar.; Kali bich.;
Kali m; Mag. c.; Mere i. r.; Pser.; See; Sil. See Follicu-
lar Pharyngitis. .

Hawking, with fetid pue — Antipyr.; Hep.; Lyce.; Sil.

Hawking, with gelatinous, viscid, gluey mucus; difficult
raising — Aisc.; Aloe; Alum.; Am. br.; Am. m.; Arg. n.,
Arum, Canth, Carbo v.: Caust., Cistus; Coca; Coccus
Hydr.; \beris; Kali _bich.; Kali c; Lach; Mere. i. fl.
Merc. 1. 7.; Myr; Nat co; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Nux, v.
Petrol.; Phos. ac; Phos.; Payt.; Psor.; Rumex; Sang
Selen ; Sep.; Silph. 6.; Stann,

Hollow feeling, as if pharynx had disappeared — Lach.

t

yt.

Inclination to swallow constantly — Azsc.;  Asaf.; Bell.
Caust.; Lac c.; Lach , Lact ac.; Lyssin; Mere. ¢. fh; Merc.
Myr.; Phyt.; Sumb.; Wyeth.

INFLAMMATION — (Pharyngitis): Atrophic (sicca): -—— sc.
Alum.; Dub.; Nux v.; Sabal.

Inflammation, catarrhal, acute — dcon ; #sc.; Apis; Arg.
n.; Bell, Bry.; Canth.; Caps., Caust.; Cistus; Evucal.
Ferr, p; Gels ; Glycerin; Guaiae ; Gymnocl.; Hep.; Tod.
Justicia; Kal: bich.; Kali c.; Khali m.; Lach.; Lachnanth.
Led. Mere. C3; Mer. i. fii Mere. i, " meres Menthol,
Naja; Nat. ars.; Nat. iod.; Nux v.; #.; Quill; Sal.
ac.; Sang.; Sang. n.; Scilla; Wyeth. + Phy

Inflammation, catarrbal, acute, predisposition to — Alumen;
Bar, c., Graph.; Lach.; Sul.
866 THROAT

Inflammation, catarrhal, chronic — Aésc.; Alum., Am. br.;
Am. caust.; Arg. 10d.; Arg. m.; Arg. nm, Ars.; Arum;
Aur.; Bar. c.; Brom ; Cale. p.; Can. ind.; Carbo v.; Caust; ;
Cinnab.; Cistus; Coceus; Cub.; Ferr. Ds Graph.; Hep.;
Slydy., lod., Kali bich , Kali cs Kali chlor.; lach.; Lyc.,
Merc. e; Mere. i. fl.; Merc.; Nat. c., wat. m; Nur vw;
Ox. ac.; Penthor ; Petrol; Phos; Puls.; Rumex; Sabad ,
Sabal; ‘Sang., See; Senega; Sep.; Stann.; Sumb.; Tab.;
Wiveth.

Inflammation, follicular, acute —- Esc ; Apis; Bell.; Feir. p,
lod.; Wah bich.; Kah m.; Mere.; Phyt.

Inflammation, follicular, chronic (clergymen’s sore throat)
—asc., Alum.; Am, br.; Arg n.; .Ain.; Arum; Cale. fl;
Cale p; Caps; Caust., Cinnab; Cistus, Dros.; Hep.;
Hydr, Ign.; Kah tich., Lach., Metc. cy.; Mere. + 4.5
Nat. m.; Nux v; Phos.; Phyt., Sang.; Sang. n.; Sticta;
Still; Sul; H’veth.

Inflammation, herpetic -- .{fis; Dor; Wydr.; Jacar; Aah
buch, Kali chlor ; Tach., Mere. 1. f.; Nat. s.; Phyt.; Sal.

ac.
Inflammation, rheumatic — .\con.; Bry.; Phyt; Rhus t.
Inflammation, septic — Am. c; Hep, Mur ac; 3 Sal,
AGGRAVATIONS ~-— From cold -- Cistus; Fluor. ac.; Hep.; Lye.
From drinks, warm or hot -— Lach., Phyt.
From menses — Lac c¢
From pressure -—~J,ach ; Merc. c.
From suppressed foot sweat - Bar ¢; Poo ; Sil.
From swellowing, empty - Antipvr , Bar. c., Dolichos, Hep.;
Justia. Vac c.3 Lach ; Mere. i. fli; Mere. 1. 13 Mere,
Phvt ; Sabad.

From swallowing liquids -Pell; Tgn.; Lach.
From swallowing solids -Tapt , Merc. s.; Morph. See Deg-
lutition.

From swallowing sweet things -—— Spong.

From warmth -— Coccus; Tod; QLach.; Mere.

Jn afternoon —J,ach

In bed — Merc i fi; Mere.

In intervals of swallowing — aps.; Ign

On left side — Lach.; Merc. 1. 71.; Sabad.

On left to right -— Jac c.: Lach, Sabad.

On’ right side — Bar. c.; Bell; Guasac; Lyc.; Mag. p.; Mere,

dai Merec.; Niccol.; Phyt.; Pod.; Sang., Sul,
AMELIORATIONS —: From inspiring cold air: — Sang.

From swallowing — Gels.; ign.

From swallowing liquids — Cistus.

From swallowing liquids, warm -- dlum.; Ars.; Cale. 4.5
Lye ; Morph.; Sabad.

From swallowing solids -——Jgn ; Lach.

PAPULES —Hippoz ; Jod. Sce Follicular Pharyngitis.

Paralysis, neuroses — 4/um., Bar. m.: Bell.; Caust.; Coce.;
Con.; Cur.; Gels.; Hep.; *Hyos.; Ign., Lach. ; Lob. infl.;
Lyc.; Merc.; Morph. ; it. ac.; Nux m.; ; Plumb. m.; Pop.
c; Rhus t.; Su; Stram.; Sul.

Peristalsis reversed —- Ambra; Asaf.

Plug or lump sensation — Alum.; Bar. c.; Bell.; Cacbo_v.;

raph. ; ; Hep.; Ign.; Lach.; Lob. infi.; "Mere. ‘i. fi.; Nat.

m.; Nux v.; Plumb. ac.; Phyt.; Puls; Sul.
THROAT 867

Pustules -— ith. See Ulceration

Rawness, roughness, scraping — 4Acon.; sc.; Alum.; Am.
ce; Am. caust., Am. ™ ; Arg. m.; Arg. n.; Arum; Bar.
c.; Bell; Bry. Brom.; Carbo v5 Caust.; Coccus; Con.;
Cub.; Dros. ; Fagop Gels.; ; Hep.; Hepat.; *"Homar.; 3; Hydr ;
lod., Kak bich. ali c, Lact. ac.; Merc. cy.; Merc; Nit.
ac.; Nus v.; Onosm.; Penthor.; Phos. ; Phat. : Pop. G,
Puls. ; Rumes; Sang. ; Sang, n.; Sep.; Sticta; Sul.

Redness — Acon.; /Esc.; Bell., Ferr. p; Gins.; Mere. i. f1.3
Mere. i. r.; Merc, nit.; Mere; Sal. ac.; > Sul.

Redness, dark, livid — 4il., Alum.; Am. ¢.; caer
amygd. pers.$ Apis; Arag.; Arg. n.; Ars; ; Bobi 8
Canth.; Caps.; Crot.; Diph.; Gunnoch.: Lach erc. en 3
Mur. ac.; ; Naja; Nat. ars.; "Penthor.; Phyt ; Puls.; Zinc.
car

Redness, glossy, as if varnished— Alum.; Apis; Arag.;
Bell.; Cistus; Lac c.. Phos.

Relaxation — Alumen; Alum.; Am. m.; Bar. c; Cale. p.;
Eucal.; Penthor.

Sensitive, sore, tender — 4con., sc.; Apis: Arg. m.; Arg.
n; Arum, Atrop.: Rar. c; Beill., Brom., Bry.; Cale.
ps Canth.; Caps.; Carb. ac.; Cast. ; Dolichos: Fagop,; Ferr.
ps Fluor. ac.; Graph.; Gymnocl ; Hep., Homar.; ; “Hydr.: ;
Ign., Kals hich. Kah c; Kali iod ; Kah_per.; Lac ¢,
Lach., Lachnanth. ; Led.; Lye.; Menthol; Merc. x Mere.
cy. : Mere. i f.; Merc. 1. +0; Merc.; Mur. ac.;

Nur v.; Ox. ac, Petrol.; Phos.; Phyt.; Pop. Ka ; aaj Nit
Rhus t: Sabad.: Sang : Sang. nj Spong ; Sul.; Trifol.;
Verbase. : Wycth
Sore, irritable of smokers — Esc.; Arg. n; Caps.; Nat. m.;
ux. v.

Spasm — Bri]... Cantn., Sumb. See Constriction.

Sticking, pricking, splinter-like pains,  gxtending to ears,
worse swallowing, yawning. etc. ar. Alum.,; Arg.

Dolhichos; Ferr. iod Is.; Hep., Kah bich.; Kali c.;
Tae c, Nit. ac., Phyt.; Sil.; Staph.

Stiffness — Esc ; Mag. p.; Mez.; Phyt ; Rhus t. See Constric-
tion.

Swelling — -icor., Esc; Ail.; Ans, Arg. n.; Arum; Bapt.;
Bar. c., Bell.; ‘Canth : Caps., Crot.; Gymnocl.; Hep.; Kali
bich.; Kali m; Kak per.; Lac c: Lach. , Mere. c. ; ‘Merc.
cv.; Merc. 1. flu; Merc. i. 97.,  Merc.; Naya; Nat. ars.;
Phyt., Sabad.; Sang.. Vespa; Wi eth. See In ammation.

Syphilis --Aur., Bell; Cinnab ; Fluor. ac.; Kali bich.; Kali
iod.; Mere. oy Merc. i. f.; Merc. 1. r., Merc. nit; "Mez.:
Nit. ac.; Phyt., Sul.

Tickling, as from hair — -Esc. gl.; Ambra; Age .; Caust.;
Dros.; Hepat.; Kal bich.; Lach; Nat. m it. ac; Nux
v; Pulex; Sahad , Sang.; Sul.; Val.: Yucca.

Ulceration — Ail ; Am. c., Apis; Aral ; Bapt.; Cinnab.; Hydr.;
Hydrast mur: Kah tich.; Kali m.; Lach; Merc. cs Merc.
cy.; Mere. i. fs Mere. ores ; Mere ; Mur, ac.; Nit. ac.;
Phyt ; Sang., Vinca m.

Uleeration, aphthous —Canth,; Eueal.; Hydrast. mur.; Nit

Ulceration, g4afigrenous— Am. c.; 4rs.; Bapt.: Crot.; Echin.;
Kah chlor.; Kali perm.; Kalin; Lach.; Merc. cy.; Merc;
ur. ac
868 THROAT

Ulceration, mercurial --Hep.; Hydr.; Lyc.; Nit. ac.

Ulceration, syphilitic — Aur. m.; Fluor. ac.; Hippoz.; Jacor.
gual.; Kali bich.; Kali iod ; Lach.; Lye; Merc. c.; Merc.
i. fll; Merc. i. r.3 Mere.; Nit. ac.; Phyt.; Still.

Veins, varicose — 4sc.; Aloe; Bar. m.; Ham.; Puls.

TONSILS — Abscess (peritonsillar): --- Calc. s
DEPOSITS ON — Creamy, extends over tonsils, uvula, soft
alate: -- Nat. p.

Dark, dry, wrinkled— Ars.

Dark, gangrenous— Bapt.

Grayish, dirty, like macerated skin, covering tonsils, uvula
pharynx — Phyt.

Grayish, dirty, thick, with fiery red margins — Apis.

Grayish, extends to posterior nares, air passages, later
purplish black — Kchin.

Grayish patch on tonsils — Kali m.

Grayish, thick; shred-like borders, adherent or free —-
Mere v

Grayish-white, in crypts —~ Ign

Grayish-yellow, slight; easily detached; worse on left —

ere. 1. 1.

Patchy on right tonsil and inflamed fauces, easily detached
-— Mere. 1. ff.

Shining, glazed white or yellow patch —-— Lac c.

Thick, brownish-yellow like wash leather, or firm, fibrinous,
pearly, extends over tonsils, soft palate —- Kali bich

Thick, dark gray, or brownish black — Diph

Thin, false; on yellowish red tonsils and fauces— Merc. s.

Thin, then dark, gangrenous — Mere cy.

HYPERTROPHY — Induration:Alumen: Aur.; Bac.; Bar. c.;
Rar. tod.; Bar. m: Brom,; Cale. ¢«; Cale. fi; Cale. iod.;
Calc, p.; Ferr. p; Hep.; Jod.; Kali bich.; Kali ms Merc.
i, fl.; Merc. i. r., Plumb, iod.; Phyt.; Sil.; Sul. iod.; Thuya.

Hypertro hy, with hardness of hearing —- Bar. c.; Calc. p;

ep.; V.ye.; Plumb.; Psor.

Inflammation (tonsillitis): Acute Catarrhal and Follicular:
—Acon ; Ail; Am. m.; Amyg. pcrs.; Apis; Bapt.; Bar. ac.;
Bar, c.; Bar, m.; Bell., Brom.; Caps.: Dulc.; Eucal.; Ferr.
p.i Gels, Gins.; Guaias.; Gymnocl.; Hep.; Ign; Tod.;
Kali bich.; Kali m.; Lac o.3 Lach.; Lye.; Merc. 1. fl., Merc.
i ws Merc, s.; Naja; Nat. s.; Phyt.; Rhus t; Sang, Sil.;

ul.

Inflammation, acute phlegmonous (quinsy): \con; Bar. c;
Rar. 1od.; Bell.; Cinuab.; Guaac; Hep., Lac c¢., Lach;
Lyc.; Mere, i, fl.; Mere. i. rj Mere. s, Merc. v.; Phyt.;
Psor.; Sang.; Sang. n.; Sil; Tear. cs Vespa.

Inflammation, chronig¢ tendency — Bar. ¢., Cale. p.; Fucus;
Veep, Lach; Lye; Su.

Redness, dark -— Ail; Amyg am.; Bapt ; Rrom ; Caps, Gym-
nacl., Lach; Mere ; Phyt.

Swelling —-l.on, Am. m; Apis: Ars. iod.; Bar. ac; Bar.
c, Bell; Brom; Cale «; Cale. p.: Caps.; Cinnab.; Cis-
tus, Diph.; Ferr p.: Gels; Guaiac.; Hep.; Ign.; Iod.;
Kali bich ; Kali mi: Lech.: Lye: Mere. c: Merc. «. A;
Merc t.or.. Mere, Phyt, Psor.; Sanz. un See Tonsillitis.
THROAT 869

Ulceration — Apis, Bar c.; Echin.; Mep.; Ign; Kal bich.;
Lach.; Lye.; Merc. c.; Mere 1 fl; Mere. 1. 7.3) Mere.
per.; Mere s, Nat 3.3; Nit. ac; Phyt., Sil. See Fol-
heular Tonsillitis.

Ulceration, gangrenous— Am. c; <\rs.; Bapt , Crot.; Lach;
Merc. cy., Mur. ac.

UVULA — Constricted feeling — Acon.

Edematous, sac-like -— Apis; Kal: bich.; Mur. ac.; Nat. ars.;
Phos.; Phyt., Rhus t.

Elongation, relaxation — AJumen; Alum.; Bar. c.; Bell.; Cale.
fl.; Canth.; Caps., Coceinel ; Coccus; Croc.; Fagop.;
Hyos.; Kali bich.; Merc. c.; Mere.; Nat. m; Nux v.;
Phos.; Phyt.; Rumex ac.; Sabad.; Wyeth.

Inflammation (uvulitis) -- 4con., Amygd. pers; Bell.; Cis.
tus; Tod.; Aah bich.; Kal per.; Merc. ¢., Mere.; Nat. s.;
Nux v.; Puls ; Sul. iod.

Pain --- Trifol.; Tussil.

Sore spot behind, better by eating - Am m.

Ulceration —JIndium; Kak ouh., Mere. c.

Whitened, shrivelled -- Carb ac.

White, tenacious, mucus --.\m. caust.
STOMACH

APPETITE — Defective, lost (anorexia) ~~ Abies n.,  Alet.;
Alfal.; Am. c.; Ant. c.; Arn.; 4rs.; Bapt.; Bism.; But.
ac; Cale c; Cale. p.; Caps.: Carb ac., Carbo v.; Card.
m.; Chel; Chin. ars.; Chionanth ; Cinch., Coca; Coff.;
Colch.; Cycl.; Dig. ; Ferr. 1m. Gent ; Glycerin; Helon.;
Hydr.; Jgn.; Tpec.; Tris; Lecith.; Lyc.; Merc. d.; Myr
Niccol.; Nu v.: Phos. ac.; 3; Phos.; Plat.; Prun. sp; Prun.
v.; Puls; Raph. Rhus t.; Sep; Stront.; Strych. ars;
Strvch. p, Sul.; Symphor.; Tarax.

Appetite, increased, ravenous (bulimy)— Abies c; <Abrot.;
Agar.; Alfal, Allium s.; Anac;: Ars. Ars. br.; Bell
Rrassica; Bry.; Cack : + Cale. c.; Calend.; Chel.; Cim'; Cina;
Cinch; Ferr m.: Glycerin; Granat ; Graph ; : Hep ; Ichth.;
Ign : Jod ; Kah 3 ; “Lact. ac.; Lap. alb.; Lyc.; Merce ; Nat.
c: Nat. m, Nux wv; Oleand.; (0) Fetral; Petros;
Phos , Psor, ” Rhus t.; Sec.; Stann ; ; pi Thyr.; Uran. n.;
Zinc, m.

Appetite, increased, hungry at night — Abies, on.; | Cina:
Cinch.; Ign.; Lye ; Petiol ; Phos.; Psor.; Scelen.; Sul,

Appetite, increased, hungry before noon -- Jfep ; Sul., Zinc.

Appetite, increased, hungry, even after a meal — Alfal ;
Cale 3 Case; Cina, _Jndol; Lyc.; Med.; Phos.; Phyt.;
Psor.; Staph, Suuunt ; Zinc,

Appetite, increased, yet loses flesh--Abrot.;  Acet. ac;

Nat m.; Sanic ; Tub ran. n.

Appetite, increased, yet quickly satiated — Am. c.; Arn;
Ars.; Bar c¢; Carbo v.; Crnch.; Cyel.; Ferr.; Lith. 3
Lye.; Nat. m.; Nux v; Petros.; Pod.; Prun, sp.; Sep.; Sul.

APPETITE PERVERTED—AVERSIONS: Alcoholic beverages:
—Ign.; Sil.

Beer --.Asaf.: Bell; Cinch.; Nux v.; Puls.

Boiled food--—- Calc. c.

Brandy -——Ign.; Lob. erin.

Bread—— Chenop. gl.; Cyci.; Ign.: Lye.; Nat m.; ; Puls; Sul.

Butter — Cycl ; Hep.; Puls., Sang

Coffee — Cham. 5 Fluor. ac.; Nux v.; Sul. ac

Drinks in general —- Bell.; Canth , Cote.; Ign.; Kali bich;
Lyssin; Nux v.3; Stram. See Hydrophobra.

Drinks, warm and hot — Cham.; Kali s.; Puls.

Eggs -~ Terr. m.

Fats-- Calc c., Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Cycl., Hep; Nat. m;
Petrol: Puls.

Food cooked ~- Graph,; Sil.

Food in general — Ant. c.; 4rs.; Canth.; Cocc.; Colch.; Dule.;
rerr, m.; Ign., [pec ; Kali bich, Kalt ce; Nux v.: Pod.,
Puls.; Rheum; Rhus t; Sahad.; Yerba. See ‘Anorexia,

Food, smell, sight of — \nt c¢, Ars.; Coce; Colch.; Dig.;
Nux. v., Sef.; Sil; Stann.; Symphor.
STOMACH 871

Food, warm, hot — Calc. c.; Ign.; Lyc.; Petrol.; Puls.; Sil;
er. a

Meat -- Aloe; 4Alum., 4rn., Bell; Cale. ¢.; Carbo v.; Card.
mj; Chenop. gl.; Cinch.; Colch.; Cycl., Ferr. p. raph. ;
Lyc; Morph.; Mur. ac, Nit. ac; Petrol.; Puls.; ep.;
Sif; Stront.. Sul, Thuya,

Milk — Arn; Bell; Carbo «, Ferr. p.; Guatac; Nat. ¢.;
Pastin ; Puls.: Sep.; Su; Sud,

Potatoes --.\lum , ‘huya

Salt food — Graph.; Selen

Sour things —- Dros; Fert. m. Sul.

Sweets -~ Bar c.; Caust., Graph., Radium, Sul.

Tobacco —- Arn.; Cale. c., Canth ; Cuce.; Lob. mf., Nat m.;
Nux v., Plant.

Tobacco, odor of —Cascar ; Jyn, Tob. inf.

Wine —~ Sul.

APPETITE — PERVERTED CRAVINGS (pica): Acids, pick-
les, sour things: utbies c., Am. m.; Ant. c.; Ant. t.;
Arn, 4rs., Arundo, Cale. ¢, Carbo an.; Chel. Cancn.,
Cod.; Hep. i Ign.; Jonosia; Kal: bich; Mag. ¢.; Myr.;
Nat m; Phos. ac.; Puls., Sec; Scp., Thea, Ver. a.

Alcoholic beverages -—-- 4rs., .Jsar ; Cale. ars.; Caps.; Carb.
a, Carbo v.; Cinch; Coca, Coce.; Ferr. p.; Kah bsch.;
Lach.; Leesth., Med; Mosch., Nur «.; Phos.; Psor ;
Puls.; Szien ; Staph.; Stront.; Sul. Sul. ac.; Syph.; Tub.

Apples - - Alue; Ant. t., Guatac., Tellur.

Beer, bitter Aloe; Cece; Kal buch, Nat. m; Nux v.;

iw

Bread -Ferr. m; Stront.

Butter - - err. im.

Buttermilk -- Hlaps.

Charcoal coal, chalk, etc. — Alum.; Cale. c., Cic.; Ign.; Nit.
ac: I’sor.

Cheese - Arg. n; Cistus ;

Coffee - - Angust Ars; Con.; Lecith.; Mosch

Drinks, cold --- ..0n.; Ant. t, Asim.; Ars.; Bell.; Bry.;
Cale c.. Coce: Cupro om; Tye: Merc; Nat. s.; Onosm.;
Phos.; Rhus t., Mer a  Sce Thirst.

Drinks, hot - Angust., Cascar.; Castan ; Chel.; Lyc., Med.;
Sabad.; Spig.

Effervescent beverages — Colch.

Eggs -- Calc. c.

Farinaceous food —- Calc. p.; Sabad.

Fats — Mez.; Nux v

Food, coarse, raw - - Abies ~.; Si.

Food, cold — Drv; Phos., Puls., Sil.

Food, fish -- Sul. ac.

Food, warm, hot — Chel.; Cupr. m; Sabad

Fruits, juicy things—- Aloe; 4nt. t.; Cinch; Mag. ¢.; Phos.
ac.; Phos.; Ver. a.

Ham rind — Calc. yp.

Lemonade — Am. m.; Cycl.; Puls.; Sab.

Meat — Abies c.; Calc. p.; Lil. t.; Mag. ¢; Menyanth.

Milk — Apis; Ars.; Phos. ac.; Rhus t.; Sabal; Sul.

Oysters — Lach.

Salt —— Calc. c.; Carbo v.; Caust., Con; Med; Nat. m;

Phos.
872 STOMACH

Spices -— Alum.; Cinch., Fluo1. ac.; Hep ; Nux m.; Nua v.;
Phos ; Sang ; Staph.

Sweets, candy -- Alfal; Am. c.; Arg. m.; Cale. c.3 Cina;
Coca; Cocaine, Jonosia; Kah c.; Lye.; Med; Sabad.;

Sul.
Tea -Alum., Hep
Tobacco -— Jsa?, Carb ac.; Carbo v.; Coca; Daphne; Staph.

Various things - [iry.; Gham.; Cina; Cinch, Fluor. ac.;
Rhenm, Sang.

Vegetables Abics c, Mag c

Water, cold 9 -fcon , Agar. emet; Ant. £t.; Apoc; Ars.;
Aam; Ball; Bra; Cale. e.; up. perf.; Onosm.; Op.;
Phos, Ver a See Thirst.

APPETITE — THINGS THAT DISAGREE — Beer:— Ferr. m.;

Aah bich

Bread Aut. co; Aixvdr , Lye. Natom, Nit ac; Puls.

Butter - Carbo an; Carbo v, Nat m3; Puls.

Cabbage - Arv, Catho v; Kali c.; Petrol

Coffee -Catho v; Lyc., Nur iv,

Drinks, cold — 47s, Calad.; Dig.; Elaps; Kali iod.; Ver. a.

Drinks, warm, hot -- Bry.; Graph; Phos., fuls ; Pyr.

Eggs -~ Colch

Fats) - Ant c: Cale ¢.; Carbo v3; Cyel., Lye; Puls, Thusa

Fish — Carbo v.

Food, cold — Kali iod.

Food of any kind— Alct ; Amyg. pers; Carobo v; Lach.;
Mosch.; Nat «

Food, warm —- l’uls.

Meat -—- Ars.; Bor; RBry.; Carbo v3; Cinch.; Mag. m.; Nat.
m, Puls, Sclen.; Sil; Ver a.

Fruits -- Jrs., Carbo v.; Caoust, Ferr. m; Kali bich.; Rumer.

Melons -— Zing.

Milk --- 2ith.. Calc. c.; Carbo v , Cinch.; Kal iod.; Lact. v.;
Mag. c.; May. m.; Niccol.; Ol. j as.; Pod, Sep; Sul,

Mushrooms, poisonous — Camph.

Odor of food nauseates — Ars.; Coce.; Colh.; Dig ; Sep.

Onions -- Brom.; Lyc.; Thuya.

Oysters --Caibo v.; Lyc

Pastry Ant c; Lye; ius.

Pork -- Ant cj; Carbo v.; Cyel.; Fuls.

Potatoes — Alum.; Sep.

Salt food -- Carbo v.

Sausage -—— Acct. ac.; Puls.

Soup — Kali c

Sour foods, drinks -- 4it. c.; Carbo v.; Dros.; Nat. m;
Phos. ac.

Starchy food — Carbo v.; Cinch ; Lyc.: Nat. c.; Nat. s.; Sul.

Strawberries — Ox ac.

Sweets --irg. »., Ipec.; Lye; Sul.; Zine

Tea —~Cinch.: Diose., Ferr. m.: Selon: Thuya,

Tobacco —Jgn.; Kali bich.; Phos.; Selen.; Tab.

Vegetables -— Hyd:.

Vinegar — Carbo v

Water — -4rs., Chin. ars,

Water, impure — Zing.

Wine — Ant. c., Zinc. m.
STOMACH 873

ATONY — (myasthenia): Bell; Ign.; Podophylin; Str3ch. p.

BILIOUSNESS -- Esc.; Aloc;) Aqua mar,.; Bapt., Berb_ v.;
Bry.; Card. m.; Cham; Chel, Chionanth ; Cinch.; Diose.;
Euonym., Eup. perf; Ferr. mi: Gent; Hydr Tris, Wahi
c.; Lept., Wye: Mag. m.; Aferc.; Myr.; Nat. s.,. Niutro-
mur. ac: Nar v., Pod, Poel; Puls.; Sep.; Sul, Taraa.;
Triost., Yucca. See Liver.

CANCER — Acct ac.; Am. m.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Bell.; Busm.;
Cale fl; Condur , Con.; Catbo_v.; Graph; Hyvdr; Aah
bich , Kah c; Kreos., Mag. p.; Nux v.3; Ornithog.; Phos.;
Plumb, m.; Sec. Sce Generalines,

CARDIAC ORIFICE — Contraction: <lum.; Bar. m.; Bry.;
Datura; Phos.; Plumb, m.

Pain (cardialgia) --lvar, dArqg om; Asaf.; Bar. cy Bism,
Can. ind; Carbo v., Caul; Cupr. om; Ferr. cy.; Ferr.
tart.; Formica; Ign.; Mag. m; Nat m.; Nit. ac.; Nux v.;
Onisens, Stront ce; Thea. See Pain.

Spasmodic contraction, painful, cardio-spasm --- .7th.; Agar.,
Am. ¢.3; Arg. a, Ars.; Bell., Cale. cj Caul, Con., Hyos.;
Ign.; Nat. m.; Nur vw; Phos; Puls.; Rhus t.. Sep; Sil.

Dilatation (gastroptosis)--- Bisn: : Graph.; Fiydrast. mur.;
Kali bich ; Naa v, Phos.; Puls.; XNanthor,

GASTRALGIA — Sce Pain

GASTRIC AFFECTIONS, better in open air -- Adon.

GASTRIC AFFECTIONS, of cigar-makers -- Jgn.

HEMORRHAGE (hemetemesis): Acct, ac.; Acon.;'Arn.; Ars.;
Bothrops; Cact., Canth ; Carbo v., Canch., Cocaine; Crot.;
Cupr. ing; Erig; kerr. poy Fieeus; Geran.; Ham., Hyos ;
Ipec., Kreos.: Mangif. ind.; Adillef., Nat. ac; Nux v.;

‘ Phos.; Sec; Vill; Zine. om.

HICCOUGH — (singultus): th; Agar.; Amyl, Ars.; Bell;
Cayup., Caps; Carbo an; Carbo vj; Cic., Cocaine; Cacc.,
Cupr. m.; Cxcl, Diosc.; Eup. perf., Gris ; Hep.; ydroc.
ac: Tyos; Jyn., Kali bro; Mag. ps Verph , Mosch,; Nat.
m.; Niccol ; Nicot.; Nux mj; Nux v.; OL sucem ; Rantanh.;
Stram., Sul ac, Tab; Ver. a3 Ver. vi; Zine. ony.;

anc. 7.

Hiccough, after smoking —Ign., Selen.

Hiccough, followed by spasm — Cupr. m.

Hiccough, with belching — Ant. c; Cajup., Cic.; Diosc.;
Nux v.; Wyeth. .

Hiccough, with hysterical, nervous symptoms — Gels.; Ign. ;
Mosch.; Nux m.; Zinc v.

Hiccough, with pains in back, after eating, nursing —

eucr.
Hiccough, with retching, vomiting — Jatropha; Mag. p.;
Mere.; Nix v.
Hiccough, with spasm of esophagus — Ver. v.
Hiccough, with yawning -- Amy): Caris.; Corcc
HYPER-ACIDITY (hyperchlorhydria): Anac.; Ant. ¢.; Arg.
n.; Atrop., Bism.; Caffeine; Calc. ¢., Cale. p.; Carbo v,
Cham.; Chin. ars.; Cinch.; Con.; Grind.; Hydr.; Ign.;
Iris; Lob. anf; Lyc.; Mag. cy Mur. ac.; Nat. c.; Nat. p.;
ux v.. Ovexine tan.; Petrol.; Phos; . vey Puls.;
Robm.; Sul.; Sul. ac. Prun. vi F
Hyperesthesia -- 41g. n., Ars.; Bism.; Chin. ars.
Hyperperistalsis — Ars.; Fel. tauri; Hyos ; Ign.; Phos.
874 STOMACH

INDIGESTION — DYSPEPSIA—Remedies in general: Alies c
Abies n.; Abrot; Acet. ac.; Aisc.; 7th.; Agar.; Alet.
Alfal.; Allium s.; Alnus; Aloe; Alum; Anac.; Ant. c.
Ant. t.; Apoc; arg n.; Aristol.; drn.; Ars.;  Atrop.
Rapt.; Bar. c; Bell.; Brsm., Brom; Bry.; Cale c
Cale, chlor.; Caps.; Carb, ae., Carbo v., Card om,
Cham., Chel., Cina, Cinch., Coca; Cochlear.; Colch., Col
Corn. fl; Cupr ac; Cvel ; Diose ; Fel taun; Ferr. m
Gent.; Graph., Wep.; Homar., Hydr., Ign; lod.; Ipec
Tris; Kah bich., Kal c; Kali m.; Lach ; Lept.; Lob. nfl.
Iye.; Mere.; Nat. c., Nat. m.; Nat s.; Nit. ac.; Mav m
Nux vv, Op; Petiol.; Phos ac.; Phos; Pier. ac.; Pod.
Pop t:. Prun. sp; Prun. v.; Ptel.; Puls ; Robm.; Sal.
ac.; Sang.; Sep.; Stann; Strych. ferr. cit.; Sul; Sul. ac.
Uran on.; Nerophyl

CAUSE — Acids: Ant c.. Ars.; Cinch ; Nat. m

Aged, debilitated — Abies n.; Ars.; Carbo v.; Cinch ; Flaor.
ac; Ifydr.; Kali c

Beer -— Ant. t, Bapt.; Rry.; Kali bich. Lye., Nur iv

Bread — Ant. c; Bry.; Lyc.; Nat. m.

Bright’s disease — Apoc Sec Urinaty System.

Buckwheat cakes — Puls

Cheese — Carbo v; Col; Nux v

Coffee — Cham.; Kali c.; Lyc.; Nuiz

Cold bathing — Ant. c.

Debauchery in general -— Ant. t; Carbo v Cinch; Nat. s.;

Nux v.
Decayed meat, fish — Ars; Carbo v
Dietetic indiscretions - \thum 3s; Ant. co Bry, Carbo 7.;

Cinch.; Coff.; Jpec., Lye., Nat. ¢; Nux zt; Puls, Xanth.

Egg albumen -Nux v

Excesses — Carbo v , Cinch , Kali cs: Nur a

Fat_food--.\nt. c.; Calc. c.; Carbo v; Cyel., Ipec.; Kali m.;
Puls , Thuya

Fatigue, brain fag, in children -—— Cale fi

Fevers, acute, after — Cinch.

Flatulent food -—— Cinch : Lyc.; Puls

Fruits — Ars.; Cinch; laps; Puls.. Ver. a

Gastric juice, scanty -— Alnus; Alion.; Lyc.

Gout -— Ant. t.; Cinch ; Colch., Nux m.; Thuya.

Hasty eating, drinking -— Anac.; Coff ; Oleand

Hot weather — Ant c; Arv.

Ice water, ices — drs , Carbo v.; Elaps; Ipec., Kali c; Nat
ec; Puls.

Lactation — Cinch.; Sinap. a.
leats — Caust., Tpec.; Puls.; Sil.

Melons - - .\rs.; Zing.

Menstruation — Arg. n.; Cop.; Sep. Sce Female Sexual
System

Milk -— 2th ; Cale. c.; Carbo v.; Mag. c.; Mag. m.; Nit. ac.;
Sul. ac.; Sul.

Nervous, from unpleasant emotions— Cham ; Nux m.; Nux v.

Pastry - - Ant. c.; Carbo v.; Ipec.; Kali m.; Lyc.; Puls.

Pork -~ Cinch . Puls,

Pregnancy — Sabad.; Sinap a.; Thea.

Salt, abuse of —- Phos.
874 STOMACH

INDIGESTION — DYSPEPSIA—Remedies in general: Alies c
Abies n.; Abrot; Acet. ac.; Aisc.; 7th.; Agar.; Alet.
Alfal.; Allium s.; Alnus; Aloe; Alum; Anac.; Ant. c.
Ant. t.; Apoc; arg n.; Aristol.; drn.; Ars.;  Atrop.
Rapt.; Bar. c; Bell.; Brsm., Brom; Bry.; Cale c
Cale, chlor.; Caps.; Carb, ae., Carbo v., Card om,
Cham., Chel., Cina, Cinch., Coca; Cochlear.; Colch., Col
Corn. fl; Cupr ac; Cvel ; Diose ; Fel taun; Ferr. m
Gent.; Graph., Wep.; Homar., Hydr., Ign; lod.; Ipec
Tris; Kah bich., Kal c; Kali m.; Lach ; Lept.; Lob. nfl.
Iye.; Mere.; Nat. c., Nat. m.; Nat s.; Nit. ac.; Mav m
Nux vv, Op; Petiol.; Phos ac.; Phos; Pier. ac.; Pod.
Pop t:. Prun. sp; Prun. v.; Ptel.; Puls ; Robm.; Sal.
ac.; Sang.; Sep.; Stann; Strych. ferr. cit.; Sul; Sul. ac.
Uran on.; Nerophyl

CAUSE — Acids: Ant c.. Ars.; Cinch ; Nat. m

Aged, debilitated — Abies n.; Ars.; Carbo v.; Cinch ; Flaor.
ac; Ifydr.; Kali c

Beer -— Ant. t, Bapt.; Rry.; Kali bich. Lye., Nur iv

Bread — Ant. c; Bry.; Lyc.; Nat. m.

Bright’s disease — Apoc Sec Urinaty System.

Buckwheat cakes — Puls

Cheese — Carbo v; Col; Nux v

Coffee — Cham.; Kali c.; Lyc.; Nuiz

Cold bathing — Ant. c.

Debauchery in general -— Ant. t; Carbo v Cinch; Nat. s.;

Nux v.
Decayed meat, fish — Ars; Carbo v
Dietetic indiscretions - \thum 3s; Ant. co Bry, Carbo 7.;

Cinch.; Coff.; Jpec., Lye., Nat. ¢; Nux zt; Puls, Xanth.

Egg albumen -Nux v

Excesses — Carbo v , Cinch , Kali cs: Nur a

Fat_food--.\nt. c.; Calc. c.; Carbo v; Cyel., Ipec.; Kali m.;
Puls , Thuya

Fatigue, brain fag, in children -—— Cale fi

Fevers, acute, after — Cinch.

Flatulent food -—— Cinch : Lyc.; Puls

Fruits — Ars.; Cinch; laps; Puls.. Ver. a

Gastric juice, scanty -— Alnus; Alion.; Lyc.

Gout -— Ant. t.; Cinch ; Colch., Nux m.; Thuya.

Hasty eating, drinking -— Anac.; Coff ; Oleand

Hot weather — Ant c; Arv.

Ice water, ices — drs , Carbo v.; Elaps; Ipec., Kali c; Nat
ec; Puls.

Lactation — Cinch.; Sinap. a.
leats — Caust., Tpec.; Puls.; Sil.

Melons - - .\rs.; Zing.

Menstruation — Arg. n.; Cop.; Sep. Sce Female Sexual
System

Milk -— 2th ; Cale. c.; Carbo v.; Mag. c.; Mag. m.; Nit. ac.;
Sul. ac.; Sul.

Nervous, from unpleasant emotions— Cham ; Nux m.; Nux v.

Pastry - - Ant. c.; Carbo v.; Ipec.; Kali m.; Lyc.; Puls.

Pork -~ Cinch . Puls,

Pregnancy — Sabad.; Sinap a.; Thea.

Salt, abuse of —- Phos.
STOMACH 875

Sedentary life — Nux v.

Sweets — Ant. c.; Arg. n.: Ipec.; Lve., Zine. m.

Tea — Abies n.; Cinch., Diosc.; Thea; Thuya.

Tobacco — Abies n. Nuxr v.; Sep.

Urticaria — Cop.

Vegetables, tebacco -— Ars; Asclep t.; Nat oc; Nux vi;

ep.

Water — Ars.

Wines, liquors -—— Ant. c, Caps.; Carbo v.; Coff.; Nat. s;
Nua v., Sul; Sul. ac.; Zinc. m

TYPE — Atonic, nervous, acid — Alet.; Alfal.; Alston.; Anac ;
Angust.; drg. n.; Cale. c.; Caps.; Carb. ac.; Carbo v.,
Ciunch.; Ferr.; Grind.; Hep.; Ign.; Jugl oj; Kah p.; Lob.
infl.; Lyc.; Mag. c; Nat. c.: ux w.; Phos., Ptel.;
Quass.; Ratanh.; Robin.; Sul. ac.; Sul.; Val.

Catarrhal — Abies c.; Abies n.; Ant. c.; Arg. n.; Bals. per.;
Cale. c.; Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Collins.; Coryd.,
Geran.; Hydr., Hydroc. ac: Wie. Ipec.; Kah bich.; Lye;
Nux v.; Ox. ac.; Puls.; Sul. See Chronic Catarrhal Gas-
tritis.

Latent or masked— Cact; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Mydroe. ac;

Nat _m; Sep., Spig.; Tab.

SYMPTOMS AN CONDITIONS — Acidity: Arg. n.; Cale. ¢.;
Carbo v.; Ien.; Lob infl; Lyc.; Nat c., Nur v.; Puls ;
Robin.; Sul. See Hyperchlorhydria.

Cough -— Lob. syph.; Taxus. See Respiratory System.

Digestion, weak, slow (bradypepsia) -—- Alston.; Anac.; Ant
c, Avg. n.; Ars.; Avsaf.; Bism.; Bry., Caps.; Carbo an.;
Carbo v.; Cinch Cochlear ; Coff.; Coleh.; Cyel., Diose ;
Eucal.; Granat; Graph.; Hydr.; Ipec.; Kali bich.; Lye.;
Merc.; Nat. c; Nat. m; Nux c., Prun. v.; Puls.; Zing.
See Indigestion.

Distress from simplest food — Aict.; Amyg. pers.; Ant. c.,
Carbo an.; Carbo v.: Cinch.; Dig.; Hep.; Kah c.; Lach.;
Nat. c., Nux v.; Puls.

Drowsiness, sleepiness -- Ant. c; Bism.; Carbo v.; Cinch.,
Epiph.; Fel taur:; Graph.; Grat.; Kah eo; Lye.; Nat. chlor.,
Nat, m.:; Nua m., ux v.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Sarrac.;
Staph.; Sul.

Eructations, belching —- 4bics n.; Acet._ac.; Agar.; Alum.;
Anac.; Ant. c.; Arg. n.; Arn; Asaf.; Bism.; Bry.; Casup.;
Calc. c., Cale. p.; Caps.; Carb. ac.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.;
Cham.; Cinch ; Cyel.; Diosc.; Fagop.j Ferr. m.; Ferr p.;
Glycerin: Graph.; Grat.; Hep.; Hydr.; Ind.; Iod.; Ipec.;
Jugl. c.; HKali_c.; Lob. infl.; Lyc.; Mag. c.; Mosch.; Nat.
c., Nat. p; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Nex m; Nux «.; Petrol.,
Phos.; Pod.; Fuls.; Robin.; Rumex; Sal. ac.; Sang.; Sep.;
Sil.; Sul; Sul. ac.; Uran. n.; Val.

Eructations, odorless, tasteless, empty — 1gar.; Aloe; 4m-
bra; Am. m.; Amnac.; Asar.; Biam.; Cale. iod.; Coca;
Coce ; Hep.; 1gn.; Jod.; Oleand.; Plat.

Eructations, rancid, putrid, foul — 4rn.; Asaf.; Bism.; Calc
iod.; Carbo v ; Cham., Cycl: Diose.; Graph.; Hydr.; Kah
c.; Mag. s.; Ornithog.; Plumb.;  Psor.; Puls.; Raph.;
Sang.; Sep., Sul; Thuya; Voal.; Xerophyl.

Eructations, relieve temporarily — Arg. .; Asaf.; Bar. c.;
Bry.; Calc p.; Carbo v.; Kali c.; Lach.; Mosch.; Nur m.;
Ol. an.; Puls.
876 STOMACH

Eructations, sour, burning, acid, bitter -- Acet. ac.; Ant. c.3
Arg. n.; Bry; Cale. c., Cale. 10d.; Cale. p.; Carb. ac.;
Carbo an.; Carbo 7, Cham.; Cinch; iose.; Kerr. p.5
Fluor. ac.; Graph ; Ipec.; Lep.; Iydr., Kali c.; Lact, ac.;
Lyc., Mag. c, Nat. c., Nat. m3; Nat. p, Nit. ac; Nit.
mur. ac.; Nua v.; Ox. ac; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Pod.; Puls.;
Raph , Robin, Sabal; Sal. ac; Senee; Sep., Sil.; Sinap.
n.; Sul., Sul. ac ; Xerophyl.

Eructations, testing of ingesta --- Ant. c., Carbo v.; Cinch.;
Cycl.; Ferr., Graph.; Puls.; Sep., Sil; Sul

Fainting — Ars.; Cinch ; Mosch.; Nux m.; Nux v.

Flatulent distention of stomach drumlike -- -Ibies c., Agar.;
Ant c, Apoc; Arg. u.; Asaf.; Bry.; But ac.. Cayup,
Cak oc., Cale fl; Caps; Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Cinch;
Colch , Cyel.s Diose : Fert. magnet.; Graph.; Grat.; Hydr.;
Tyn., Indol, Jugh oc. Nalie.. Lach, Lyve., Mosch i Nux m
Nuaiv, Ox “acc, Phos; Pop tr; Pals.; Sil, Sul; Thuya.
dee Sensation. .

Headache -- Arg. n; Piv., Catho v.; Cinch.; Cvel ; Kali ¢.;
Lach; Lept, /an, Nat om; Nerv x, Puls; Robin;
Sang.; Varax See Ilead.

Heartburn, pyrosis - \w. c; Ant. c, Apomorph.; drg. 2.;
Ais; Bism ; Bry; Cayup.: Cale. c.; Calend.; Caps.; Carb.
ac.; Carbo v.; Chin. s.; Datura, Diosc., Fagop.; Gail. ae ;
Graph ; Iod; Wali c; Lach.: Tob. nfl; Lye.; Mag m.;
Nat. m.; Nit. aces Nuv vw, Puls., Robin.; Sang.; Simap.;
Sinap_n.; Sul, ac ; Tab,

Hiccough -—— Diy ; Hyos.; Ign.; Nur z., Pars; Sep.

Lassitude, weakness — .\ct. sp; Ant. t.: Ars.; Can. 5.3
Caps.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Graph.; Grat.; Hydr.;
Lyc.; Nux v.; Pius , Fuls., Sep.

Mental depression, dullness -Anac:; Cinch; Cycl.; Hydr.;
Lyc.: Nat. c.; Nit. ac; Nuv z., Puls; Sep. See Mind.
Nausea, vomiting --#th: Ant. c.; Ant. t.; Arg. nm; Ars.;
Atrop.; Bism.; Bry., Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Cham.; Coce.;
Ferr. m.; Graph ; Ign.; Ipec.; Kalk bich.; Kreos.; Lept.;
Lob. infl; Nat. c.; Nuwv v.; Petrol; Phos.; Puls., Rhus

t.; Sang.; Sep.; Sil. See Vomiting.

Pain— dbies n, Aisc; Anis., irg. n.; Arn.; dyrs.; Bry.;
Cale. iod ; Cale. mut.; Cathe v. Cinch: Col.; Cupressus;
Diose.; Gamb.; Hedeoma; Homar.; Ipee: Kah m.; Nat.
m; Nur v., Paraf.; Phos., Pals; Scutel; Sep.; Stann.;
Thuya. Sce Pain.

Pain immediately after eating -- dives n.. Ain; Ais; Cale
©; Carbo vy; Cinch: Coco; Aah buh, Kal co, Lye;
Narom, Physost

Pain several hours after eating --.E.c.; .igu’., Anac; Biy.;
Cale, hypoph ; Con; Auriz., Ox ac, Puls

Palpitation of the heart — Ames c; Arg. n; Cact + Carbo
tw. Hydioe, acs Lye: Nut orn, Nur cv; Puls.; Sep.;
Spi: ab See Circulatory System.

Pressure as from a stone - fbivs «> Acon; Eec.; Anac.;
Argon Arm: ss, Bry; Cale. c¢; Carbo v.; Cham.;
Cinch. Digs Fert. my Graph.; Hep: ali bich.; Lob.
infl.; Lye. Nev Phos ac; Phos, Puls., Rhus t.;
Rumex; Sela: Sep. Sul

Pulsation in epigastrium -- Jsa/.; Eucal., Hvdr.; Nat. m;
Puls.; Selen.; Sep.

STOMACH 877

Pulsation in rectum -— Aloc.

Regurgitation of food -.Eth; .flim., Am. my Ant. c.;
Asaf.: Carbo ve, Cham, Ferr iod.; Fert > Graph; Ign.s
Tpec.. Mares; Nat py Nur v., Pos, Puis, Quass.; Sul.

Salivation -- Cycl ; Tob infl.; Were , Nat. m., Puls.; Sang.
See Mouth.

Sweating- -Catbo ., Nat in: Nit ac; Sep

Toothache — Cham.; Kali c¢; Lye.; Nat. c.; Nit. ac.

Vertigo — Bry ; Carbo v.; Cimeh.; Cyel.; Grat.; Ign.; Nur
wv, Puls.; Rhus t. See Head.

Wate: brash-—- Abics nu, \ect. ac; Ant, c.; Ars.; Bism.;
Bry, Cale. ce; Carbo v; Diose.; Fagop.; Giaph.; Hep ;
Uydr., Wah ec; Lact. ac, Lae., Mag. m.; Nat. m.; Nat.
ac; Aux w.; Pod., Puls, Sep.; Sul; Symphor.; Ver. a.

INFLAMMATION (gastritis); acute: Acon., Agar emet ;
alee 4, airy, Bell, Vosm: Bry.;) Canth; Feir. op;
Hedcoma; Fivdr , Ityos., Jfec : Tris: Kal bich , Kali chlor,
Mare. a: Navov, Ov ac.; Phos., Puls., Santon.; Simap.
a; der oa, Zine

Inflammation, acute, from aicoholic abuse -- Arg. n.; Ars.;
Bism ; Ciot.; Cupr.; Gaulth,; Lach; Nux 3 Phos.

Inflammation, acute, with intestinal involvement (gastro-
enteritis): Alumen, .Irg oo, -irs., Bapt., Bism.; Bry.;
Cupre, Mere. ¢: Mere. Rius ¢. Santon 3 Zine

Inflammation, chronic (catarrh of stomach)— Alum.; Ant.
c, «dnt t, arg om, Arn; Ars., Bersm; Cale oc; Cale.
chlor.; Cans,; Carl. ac.; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Colch; Dig.;
oruph , Hydr., ilydroe ac, Whe, Tod: Iyec.: Kah
bich., Kali_e; Tye; Merc. co; Nux v., Ops Ox. ac.,
Phos; Pod; Puls. Rumex; Sang.; Sep.; Sil; Sul.;
Ver. a.; Zine

NAUSEA — (qualmishness): Jaf. cc. Ant. t., Apoc., Ape-
morph.; Arg n, Arm.; Ars Asar.: Belly Berb. v.;
Bism.; Bry., Cadm os, Cath ac, Carbo vw, Ca ~ om,
Cascar,; Cham., Chel.; Chionanth.; Cocc.; Cosch.,; Cupr.
m., Cvrel.; Thg.; Fug. j.; Fagop; Ferr. m; lon. ;
Hedeoma, Hyper.; Ichth 5 /pec.; iris, Kah bich.; Kah c.;
Kal.; Kreos.; Iach.: Lact. ac.; Lob, infl.; Merc. ¢.; Merc.
s.; Morph; Nat. c.; Nat. m.; Nux v.; Ostrya; Petrol.;
Pod.; Puls.; Sabad; Sang; Sarcol. ac.; Sep.; Spig.;
Strvch.; Symphor.; Tab.; Ther.; Ver. a.; Ver. v.

Nausea after abdominal operations — Staph.

Nausea after eating — Am. c.; Graph.; Nux v.; Puls.; Sil.

Nausea before breakfast — Berb. v.; Gossyp.; Nux v.; Sep.

Nausea from beer — Kali bich.

Nausea from closing eyes — Lach ; Ther.; Thuya.

Nausea from coffee — Cham.

Nausea from fat — Nit. ac.

Nausea from ices, cold — Ars.

Nausea from pessaries — Nux m.

Nanee from looking at moving objects —Cocc.; Ipec ;
abor.

Nausea from immersing hands in warm water — Phos.

Nausea from nervousness, emotional excitement — Menthol.

Nausea from pregnancy— Cocc.; Con.; Lect. ac.; Lac. v-
c; Mag. c.; Mag. m.; Phos. ac.; Piloc.; Steph.; Strych.;
Sul. See Female Sexual System.
878 STOMACH

Nausea from riding in cars, boat—Arn.; Cocc.; Lac d.;
Nux m.; Nux v; Petrol.; Sanic.; Ther.

Nausea from smell or sight of food—th.; Ars.; Coce.;
Colch.; Nnx v.; Puls.; Sep.; Stann.; Symphor.

Nausea from smoking — Euphras.; 3 Ign.; Phos., Tab.

Nausea from swects —,Graph.

Nausea from water — Apoc.; Ars.; Ver. a.

Nausea from water, aerated, champagne — [)igitox.

With cramps — Triost

With desire for stool — Dulc.

With diarrhoea, anxiety — Ant. t.

With drowsiness -- Apoc

With faintness —- Bry.; Cocc., Colch.; Hep.; Nux v.; Plat.;
Puls., Tab.; Val.

With headache — Aloe, Formiea, Puls.

With hunger — Berb. aq, Coce.; "Ign : Val

With menses --Cocc., Crot ; Symp hor,

With pain, coldness ~— Cadm. s.; Hep.

With pale, twitching face, no relief from vomiting — Ip-c.

With pressure downward, in intestines — Agn

With relief from eating -— Lact. ac., Mez.; Santon; Sep.;

ip. op

With’ relief from lemonade — Cycl.; Puls.

With relief from lying down -~-- Echin 3; Kah c ; Puls

With relief from smo ing -- Eug. j.

With relief from uncovering abdomen; in open air — Tab.

With salivation — Ipec., Petrol.; Sang.

With vertigo Coce., Uyos.; Tach.; ; Pais ; 3 Tab.; Ther.

With vision dim -— Myg.

With weakness, anxiety, recurs periodically -— Ars

Worse after eating — Avsar.; Berb. aq.; Dig.; Ipec., Nux v.;

Puls.
Worse from motion, rising — Ars.; Bry.; Coce., Symphor ;
Tab., Triost.; } "er. a.

Worse in morning -- Anac.; Cale. c.; Fagop.; Carbo v.;
Graphs fact. ac.; Nat. c; Nux v.; Phos.; Puls.; Sep.;
Sil; Sul.

NERVOUS DISORDERS — -Jgar.; Bell.; Col.; Mag. p.; Nux
v.; Sang. See Pain.

PAIN (gastrodynia): Type: Aching: — /Esc.; Anac.; Hydr.;
uta.

Burning, as from ulcer -— Acet. ac.; Agar. emet.; Arg. n.;
Arn.; .4irs., Asaf.; Bism.; Cadm. br.; Canth.; Carbo v.;
Chin ais; Colch.; Condur ; _Con.; Datura, Formica;
Graph.; lod.; Iris; Kali iod.; Laburn.; 3; Lact ac.; Lapis
alb., Mancin.; Nat. m; Nux uv, Ox. ac, Phos ; Robin.;
Sep.; Sul; Uian. See Sensations.

Crampy, contractive, colicky, drawing — Abies n.; Act.
sp.; gar. ph; Arg. n.; Bapt.; ell; Bism.; But. acs
Cact ; Cale c.5 Cale, iod.; Carbo v.; Cham.; Cocaine:
Cece. Col; Con. aH Datura; Granat.; G hes
Ton "Ipee : Jenne Kat nes Lob infl.; Mag. p.;

Phos.; Plat; Prel.; Sep.; Ver. v. See Sensations.
Cutting, lancinating, stitching, spasmodic, paroxysmal,
rting, tearing, shooting—-Acon.; Act. sp.; Ar;
Atrep.; Bell.; ism: Bry,, Carbo v.; Card’ m, aust:
Chin. ars., Coi.; Con.; Cuppresus; upr. ac.; eu ir. m5
Diose.; Hydr.; ‘Ign.; Iris; Kali c.; Mag. .; Mus ws
Ox. ac.; Ratank.; Sep.; Sul; Thall.
STOMACH 879

Epigastric (pit of stomach) — Abies c.; Abies n; Act. sp.;
JEsc.: Aloe; Am. m.; Anac.; Arg. n.: Arn; Ars; Bar.
m.; Bell., Bism.; Brv., Cale. ¢.; Cale iod.; Carb, ac,
Carbo v.; Cina: Col.; Cupt.; Dtose.; Graph; Hvyvdr.;
Jatropha; Kali c.; Kal.; Lob infl; Lyc; Nat. m, Nur
u., Paraf.; Phos.; Sep., Sang.; Ver. a.

Gnawing, hungry-like — Abies c.,  Abrot.; isc.; Agar.;
Am. m; Anac ; Arg. n.; Cina, Ign.; Jod., Lach, Phos ;
Puls., Ruta, Sep.; Uran. See Sensations.

Neuralgic (gastralgia)—- Abies n.;  Asc.;  Alum.; Anac
Arg. n.; Ars.; Atrop., Bell; Bism.; Bry.; Carbo v.
Chel.; Cham.; Chin. ars, Cima; Coce., Cod.; Colch.; Col
Condur.; Cupr. ars.; Dig.; Diosc.; Ferr. m.; Gels.; Glon.
Graph.; Hydroc ac, Ign, Ipec., Kali c.; Lob. infl.; Mag.
.; Menthol; Niccol; Nux m.; Nuzx_v.; O+. ac.; Phemb.
‘tel; Puls.; Quass.; Rham. c.; Ruta; Spig.; Stann.
Strych.; Sul ac.; Tab.; Ver. a.; Zine.

Concomitants to gastralgia — With anemia — Ferr.; Glon.

raph.

With backache, anxiety, despondency, sallow face — Nit.
ac.

With chronic gastritis — Alum,; Atrop.; Bism.; Lye.

With chronic ulcer-- Arg. 1

With constipation — Bry.; Graph.; Nux v.;  Physost.;

und.

With extension to shoulders -— Niccol.

With gout.— Colch.; Urt.

With hysteria — Asaf.; Ign.; Plat.

With lactation — Carbo v.; Cinch.

With menses — Arg. n.; Coce

With nervous depression — Arg. n.; Gaulth.; Nurs v.

With pain in throat and spine alternately —- Paraf.

With recurrence -— Giaph.

With uterine disorder --- Bor.

Sickening pain - - Ostrya.

MODALITIES TO PAIN — Aggravation: At night: Anac ;
Arg n.; Ars.; Cham.; Coce.; Ign.; Kali bich.

From beer — Bapt.; Kali bich.

From bending forward — Kal.

From’ coffee — Canth.; Cham.; Nux v.; Ox. ac,

From empty stomach — Anac., Cina; Hydroc. ac.; Petrol.

From food — Arg. ».; Bell.; Bry.; Ign.; Kali bich.; Nux v.

From food, warm — Har. c.

From jar — Aloe; Bell.; Bry.

From nursing — -£th.

From pressure — Arg. n.; Calc. c.; Cochlear.; Ign.

From touch — Bell., Ign.; Nux v.; Ox. ac.

From walking. descending stairs— Bry.

From water, cold — Calc. c.

From worms— Cina; Granat.

AMELIORATION — From bendi
Bell.; Diose. rom ing backward, standing erect:
880 STOMACH

From drinks, cold - Dicm.

From drinks, warm ,-- Graph.; Ver. v.

From eating— 4nac ; Brom; Chel, Graph.; Hep.; Homar.;
Hydroc. ac.; Ign; Jod., Kreos.; Lach.; Nat. m.; Petrol;
Puls.; Sep.

From ice cream — Phos.

From pressure -~- Bry ; Fluor. ac.; Plumb.

From sitting erect -— Kal.

From vomiting - - Hlyos.; Plumb. m.

PYLORUS — Constriction -- (Can. ind.; Cinch.; Hep.; Nux v.;
Phos.; Ornithog.; Sil.

Induration —- Bism.; Condur.; Phos ; Sep.; Strych. p.

Pain --Canth., Copa; Hep.; Lye ; Merc.; Ornithog.; Tussil ;
Uran. See Constriction.

SENSATION — Anxiety: Ars.; Kali c.; Nit ac.; Phos.; Ver. a.

As if stomach were full of dry food — Calad.

As if stomach were pressed against spine — Arn.

As if stomach were swimming in water — Abrot.

Burning heat — Ahics c., Acet. ac.; dcon.; Agar.; Arg. n.5
zirs., Bism ; Calopt ; Canth ; Carb. ac.; Carbo v ; Caust.;
Colch.; Col; Fert. m.; Glycerm; Graph.; Hep.; Iris;
Lact, ac.; Mere c.; Nat. m3 Phos.; Sang.; Sep.; Sul.,

eb.

Coldness — Abrot.; Bov.; Calc. sil.; Camph.; Cinch.; Colch.;
Elaps; Hippom; Kal c.; | Kreos.; Menyanth.; OL an.;
Pyrus, Sabad.; Sul. ac., Tab.; ler. a

Distended, drumlike, tightness, clothing intolerable — Abies
c., Absinth; Agar.; Ambra; Anac.; Ant. ¢.; Apoc.;
wirg, n; Ars.; Asaf; But. ac.; Cayup.; Cale. c.; Cale. fl.,
Cale. tod., Cale p., Caps, Cart, ac, Carbo v., Cham;
Chel ; Caneh.; Coce.; Colch.; Diose.; Euonym,; Fel tauri;
Ferr. mj; Graph.; Giat.; Ign.; Kal c.; Lach.; Lecith.;
Lob, infl.; Lyc., Mere. ¢.; Moseh.; Nat. cholein; Nat. m.;
Nit. ac.; Nux m; Nux v.; Ornithog.; Pop. tr.; Puls;

Sul.
Empty, faint, sinking, “all gone” feeling -— dbies c.;
Knee; Apoc.; Asaf ; Bapt ; Bav. mur.; Caps.; Carbo an;

Carbo uv; Cum., Coce.; Dig.; Drosc.; Gels.; Glon.; Graph.;
Hydr.; Uydroc, ac.; 2gn.; Kalic.; Kali p.; Latrod.; Dob
anfl., Lye; Alerc. s ; Morpb.; Murex; Ornithog.; Petrol.;
Phos., VPtel.; J’uls., Radium; Sang.; Sep., Stann.; Sul.,
Tab,; Tellur.; Thea; Thusa; Trill; Vib. op. .

Empty feeling, aggravated 11 a. m., unable to wait for
lunch— Sui; Zinc) m

Empty feeling, relieved by eating— 4nac.; Chel.; Nat. ¢.;
Mur ; Phos.; Sep.; Sul.

Empty feeling, relieved by lying down, wine— Sep.

Heaviness, pressure, as from stone or lump — 4bies n.;
Acon.; 4rg. n.; Arn; Ars.; Bism.; Bry.; Cale. c.; Carbo
v., Cham.; Cinch; Colch.; Dig.; Ferr. m3 Graph; Kali
b:ch., Kali c.: Lob. inf; Joye y Nux v.; Passifi.; Piloc.;
Phos., Puls.; Robin.; Sang.; Sep.; Spig.; Sui; Xerophyl.;

ig.

Pulsations, throbbing -- ira, .; Asaf.; Cact.; Cic.; Crot.;
Eucal.; Hydr.; lod.; Aah ¢.; Kali iod.; Lach.; Nat. m.,
Oleand.; Puis,; Rheum.
STOMACH 881

Relaxed, hanging down feeling — Agar.; Hydr ; Ign.; Ipec.,
Staph., Sul. ac; Tab.

Tenderness, to contact, pressure, jars — 4pis; Arg. 1.;
Ars.; Bell.;| Bov.: Bry.; Cale. ce; Cale. iod; Canth.
Carbo v.; Card. m.; Cinch, Colch.; Dig.; AKals dich.
Kali c; Lach.; Leewth.; Lyc.; Merc. c.; Merc. s; Nat._c.
Nat m.; Nux m.; Nuzx 7; Phos.; Puls.; Sang.; Sil.
Spig.; Stann.; Sul.

Trembling — Arg. n.; Crot.

Softening (gastro-malacia) — Calc c.; Kreos.; Merc. d.

THIRST —- Acet. ac.; Acon.; Alfal.; Ant. c; Ant. t.; Apoc.

‘ Arn.; Ars.; Ais. iod.; Bell; Berb. v.; Bism.; ry.
Camph.; Canth., Caps., Cham.; Chin. _ars.; Cinch.; Cocc.
Colch.; Crot.; Cupr. ars., Dule.; Eup. pert. Helleb.
Ichth.; Indol; Tod, Kali br., Lact ac, Jaur.; Lecith .
Mag. c.; Mag. p; Med.; Meic. c.; Merc.: Morph.; Nat.
m., Nux v.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Pod; Rhus ar.
Rehus t., Sang; Bella; Sec; Sep, Stram.; Sul; Tereb.
Thuya; Uran. n.; Ver a Jer ~.

Constant sipping of cold water -—.Jcon., Ant. t.; drs.; lyos.
Onosm.; Sanic

Drinks seldom, but much — #ry., Helleb.; Pod.; Sul., Ver. a

Thirstlessness -— Eth.; Ant. t.: Apis; Berb  v.; Cinch.
Coff.; Cyel.; Gels, Helleb; Menyanth.; Nux m.; Puls.
Sabad.; Sars.

ULCER OF STOMACH — 47rg. 1.; Ars.; Atrop.; Bell; Bism.
Cale. ars.; Condur; Crot.; Ferr. acet; Geran.; Grind.
liam.; Hydr.; Iod.: Ipec.; Kah_bich.; Kali iod.; Kreos.
Lye.; Merc. c.; Mere; Op; Ornithog.; Petrol.; Phos.
Plumb. ac.; Ratana.; Smap, a.; Symphyt.; Uran.

VOMITING, retching — Remedies in general: Abrot.; Acon.
Zith.; Agar. phai.; Alumen; Amyg. pers.; Ant. c; Ant. t.
Apoc.; Afpomoroh.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Atrop.;, Bell.; Bism,
Ror.; Bry.; Cadm. s.; Cale ¢; Cale. m; Camph. monobr.
Can. ind; Canth.; Caps.; Carb. ac.; Card. m.; Cascarilla
Cerium, Cham.; Chel.; Cineh.: Coce.; Colch.; Cupr._ac.
Cupr. ars ; Cupr._m.; Dros; Eup. perf.; Ferr. m.; Ferr.
mur.; Ferr. p.; Gaulth.; Geran.; Granat.; Graph.;_Iod.
Ipec.; Ins; Jatropha; Kal bich.; Kali ox.; Kreos.; Lach.
Lact. ac; Lod. ingl.; Mag. c.; Merc. ¢.; Morph; Nat. m.
Nat p.; Nus v.; Op.; Petrol.; Phos.; Pix 1.; Plumb.
Puls.; Rican. com.; Sang.; Sarcol. ac.; Sep.; Stann.
Strych.; Serych. et ferr. cit.; Symphor.; Tab.; Uran.
Val.; Ver. a; Xerophyl.; Zinc.

CAUSE — Anger in nursing mother, affecting milk — Val.

Beer — Cupr.; Ipec; Aali bich.

Bowels impacted ---Op.; Plumb.; Pyr,

Cancer (hepatic, uterine) -~ Carb. ac.; Kreos.

Cerebral— Apomorph.; Bell.; Glon.; Plumb. m.

Climacteric —- Aquil. .

Closing eyes — Ther.

Cyclic, in infants— Cupr. ars.; Iris; Kreos.; Mere. d.

Drinks, cold, can only retain het drinks— Apoc.; Ars.;
Ars. 10d ; Calad.; Cascar., Chel.; Ver. a.
882 STOMACH

Drinks of any kind - Acon.; Apoc; Ant. t.; Ars,; Bism.;
Canth.; Dule.; Eup. perf.; Ipec.; Sanic.; Sil.; Ver. a.

Drinks, warm — Bry., Phos.; Puls.; Pyr.; Sanic.

Drunkards in morning — Ant t; <Ars.; Carb. ac.; Cupr.
ars.; Cupr. m.; Ipec.; Lob. infl.; Nux v.

Eating, drinking — Acct. ac; -int. c., Ant. t.; Ars, Bism.;
Bry.; Cale. mur ; Cina; Colch.; Crot.; Ferr. m., Ferr. p.;
Hyos.; lod, IJpec., Lyc, Nux v.; Phos.; Puls.; Sil;
Ver. a.; Ver. v.

Gastric irritation —- Ant. c.; Ars.; Bism.; Ipec.; Nux v.;

hos.; Puls.

Hysterical —— Aquil.; Ign.; Kreos.; Plat; Val.

Lying on any side, except right — Ant. t.

Lying on right side— Crot.

Menses, after—Ciot. Sec Female Sexual System.

Milk — #th., Ars.; Cale. c.; Ferr.; Kreos.; Mag. c.; Mag.
m.; Merc. d.; Merc. s.

Mosien — Bry.; Coce.; Colch.; Dig.; Nux v.; Tab.; Ther.;

er. Gh

Phthisis - Kah br. Kreos.

Post-operative (laparotomy) -—.#th.; Bism.; Cepa; Nux v.,
Phos,, Strych

Pregnancy — Acct. ac.; Alet.; Amyg. pers.; Ant. t.; Apo-
morph.; <Ars.; Bism.; Ceriwn; Cocaine; Coce.; Cod.;
Cucurb.; Cupr. ac., Ferr. m.; Gossyp.; Graph.; Ign.;
Ipec., Iris, Kreos.; Lac d; Lact. ac.; Lob. infl.; Mag. c.;
Nux vu; Petrol; Phos.; Puls.; Sep.; Strom. br.; Strych.;
Symphor.; Jad.

Pressure on spine and cervical region — Cim.

Raising head--.\pomorph.; Bry.; Stram.

Reflex — Apomuiph.; Ceram; Cocc.; Jpec., Kreos ; Val.

Renal origin— Kreos.; Nux v.

Riding in cars —- Arn.; Cocc.; Ipec.; Kreos.; Nux v.; Petrol.;
Sanic.; Sil.

Scariet tever — Ail.; Bell.

Sea-sickness — Apomorph.; <Ars.;  Bor.; Cerium; Coce.
Coff.; Ipec.; Kreos.; Nicot.; Nux v.; Op.; Petrol.; Sep.
Staph.; Tab.

TYPE — Acid, sour: Ant. c.;  <Ats.; Bry.; Calad.; Cale. c.
Card. m.; Chom.; Ferr. m.; Ferr. R: lod.; Ins; Kali c.
Lact. ac.; Lyc.; ‘Mag. c.; Nat: p.; Nat. s.; Nux v.; Puls.
Robin Sul.; Sul. ac.

Bilious (green, yellow)—- Acon.; Ant. ¢.; Ant. t; Ars.
Bell.; Bry., Carb. ac.; Card. m.; Cham., Chel.; Crot.
Eup. arom.; Exp. bert. Grat.; Ipec.; Iris; Kali c.; Lept.
Nex v.; Nyctanth.; Petrol; Pod.; Puls.; Robin.; Sang.
Sep.; Sul; Tart. ac.

Black — Ars.; Cadm. s.; Crot.; Mancim; Pix }.

Bloody — Acon.; Arg. n.; Ars., Bothrops; Cadm, s; Canth
Ciot.; Ferr, m.; Ferr. p.; Fiecus; Geran.; Hom.; ipec.
Ins; Mez.; Phos.; Sec. See Hemetemesis,

Coffee-grounds, like —4rs., Cadm. s.; Crot., Lach.; Merc.
ec, Ornithog.; Pyr.; Sec.

Fecal- ©p.; Plumb.

Food, undigested — int. ¢ +: Apoc.; Atrop.; Bals. per.;
Bism ; &ry.; Cerium; Cich.: Colch.; Cape; Ferro m.:
STOMACH 883

Ferr. mur., Ferr. p 3 Graph.; Ipec.; Iris; Kreos.; Nux v.;
Petrol ; Phos.; Puls , Sang.; Strych. ferr. cit, Ver. a.
Milk, coagula-— 2ith., Ant c.; Cale. c, Ipec.; Mag. c;

Mag. m; Mere. d.; Merc., Pod.; Sanic ; Fal.

Mucus slimy —-.Eth.; Ant. c; Ant. t.; Arg. n., Ars.; Bals.
per.; Cadm s.; Carbo v; Colch; /pec., Iris; Jatropha;
Kal bich.; Keli im; Kreos.; Mere. c3 Nux v. + Ox. ac,
Petrol.; Puls , Ver. a., Zine.

Watery — Abrot.; Ars, Bism ; RBry.; Euphorbia; Euphorb.
cor., Kreos., Yod; Ins; Mag. ¢.; Oleand.; Ver.

Yeast, hke— Nat. c. 3; Nat os.

CONCOMITANTS — With abdominal rumbling — Pod.

With appetite — Tod. Lob infi

With bowels obstructed, impacted — Op; ; Piumb.; Pyr.

With chilliness — .\rs, Dule.; Puls.; ‘Tab.

With cholera —./rs, Camph. See Abdomen

With clavus, fickle appetite, salivation, copious lemon col-
ored urine - Ign

With colic. cramps -~— Bism ;) Cuter oars, Cupr. mi; Op;
Plumb.; Pix f., Sariac ; [er a. See Abdomcu.

With collapse, weakness —. Eth, {11¢. t., Ars., Cadm. 8.3
Euphorb. cor; Lob. infl; Tab.; ker. a, Ver. v.

With constipation — Nux v.; Op’; Pjumb,

With diarrhoea — -\rs ; Bism; Cale. c.: Cham. Cupr. ars.;

‘upr. m., Ibec , Iris; Kreos; Mere. c.; Phos.; Pulex;
Puls.; Resore; Ver a. See Abdomen,

With drowsiness — 4th; Ant. t.; Ipec ; Mag. c.

With fear, heat, thirst. profuse urine and sweat — Acon.

With fruitless, anxious retching -- Ars; Cupi.; Bod.

With headache — .Apcmo-ph.; Iris, Petrol See Tead

With heart, weak - .\15, Camph.; ; Dig.

With midnight occurrence — Ferr. in.

With nausea — Eth; Amyg. pers.; Ant. t.; Bry.; Ipec.;
Iris; Lob inf Nua v.; Petrol; Puls., Sang.; Symphor.
See Nausea.

With relief of symptoms -—— Ant. t.; Puls.

With relief from eating, drinking — Anac.; Tab.

With relief from cold drinks — Cupr.; : Phos. ; ; Puls.

With relief from hot drinks— Ars.; Chel

With relief from lying down — Bry.; Nux v.; Symphor.

With relief from lying on right side — Ant. t.

With relief from uncovering abdomen — Tab.

With salivation --Graph.; Ign.; Ipec., Iris; Kreos.; Lob.
infl.; Puls.; Tab.

With spasms — Cupr m ; Hyos.; Op.

With tongue clean — Cina; Dig.; Ipec.

With vertigo —Cocc.; Ign.; Nus v.; Tab.
ABDOMEN

APPENDICITIS. Sce Typhlitis.

BURNING heat — Abies ¢c: stcon, Alec, <Alston.; Ant. c.3
Apis. Ave ony ars, Bell, Bry. Camph., Canth., Carbo
visi Coleh, Crot; Jris, Kah bich , Limul., Lye; Mere. ¢.;
Nat s; Nux v.; Or ac.; Phos. ac.; ’hos , Pod.; Rhus t,
Sang.; Sce; Sep.; Sul.; Ver. a.

CECUM, affections of — A1s.; Lach; Rhus v; Ver. v. See
Appendicitis, typhlitis.

COLDNESS -- 42th ; Ambra; Aur. m.; Cadm. s.; Cale. c.;
Camph ; Caps; Cinch.; Colch.: Flaps; Grat.: Nal _ be.
Kah c.. Lach; Menyanth.; Phell.; Phos; Sec.; Sep.
Tab, Ver. a

COLIC — PAIN — Remedies in general: 4con,, Adren.; Aloe

Alunm.,.frg. 2.3 Arn.; Ars.; Bar. «3 Bell.; Bry.; Cajup.

Cale po: Carb. ac.3 Carbo v.; Cham.; Chin. ars; Cie.

Cma, Cinch; Coce., Coff.; _ Collins.; Colch.; Cel.

Crot. t.; Cupr. ac.; Cupr. m; Cyel.; Dig.; Diosc.; Elat.

Fihx oun; Gamb., Grat.; Jya.; Mhe.; Jpec.; Iris teu

Iris, Jal, Tepte; Limul.: Lye 3 May..c; Mag p; Mentha

Ajerc. ¢ ; Mere.; Morph.; Nat. s.; Nue v.; Oniseus; Of.,

Ox. ac.; Paiaf.; Plat.; Plumb. ac.; Plumb. chrom.; Plumb

m.; Pod; Pclyg.; Fuls.; Raph.; Rheum; Rhus t.; Sab.

Samb, San, Senda, Sep, Su, Simup, om.  Stann,

Staph.; Strych.; Thuya; Ver. a.; Vib. of.; Zine m.

CAUSE AND NATURE — Alternates with vertigo: Col.; Spig

Babies’ colic— ‘th; Asat.; Bell.; Cale. p.; Cham.; Cina
Col.; Tle; Jal; Kali br.; Lye; Mag. p.; Mentha pip.
Nepeta; Rheum; Senna; Staph.

Biliary, gall-stone colic — Atrop.; Bell.; Berb. v.; Bry.; Calc.
c., Card m.; Cham.; Chionaath.; Ciach.; Col.; Diose.
Ipec.; Tiis: Lye.; Mentha; Morph. acet.; Pod.; Ricin.
Tereb.; Tiiost. See Gall Bladder,

Chronic tendency —- Lyc ; Staph.

Flatulent colic— Absinth; Agar.; Alfal; Aloe; Anis.; Arg
n.; Asaf; Bell.; But. ac; Cajup.; Carbon. s.; Carbo v.
Cham.; Cina; Cinch ; Coce., Col.; Dtosc.; Hydroe ac.
Llic : Ipec.; Iris; Lye.; Mag. p.; Mentha; Nux v.; Op.
Tiymb. m.; Polygon., Puls.; Radium; Raph.; Robin,
Sang.; Senna; Zine,

From anger — Cham.; Col; Staph.

From carriage riding -— Carbo v.; Coce.

From cold -—- Acon.; Cepa; Cham.; Col.; Nua v.

From eating cheese — Col.

From gastric disorder — Carbo v.;  Cinch.; Col.; Ipec.;
Lyc.: Nur v.; Puls.

From lithotomy, ovariotomy, attending abdominal section
Bism.; Hep.; Raph.; Stapa.

From uncovering — Nux v; Rheum.

From wet feet — Cepa; Cham.; Dolichos; Dulc.
ABDOMEN

APPENDICITIS. Sce Typhlitis.

BURNING heat — Abies ¢c: stcon, Alec, <Alston.; Ant. c.3
Apis. Ave ony ars, Bell, Bry. Camph., Canth., Carbo
visi Coleh, Crot; Jris, Kah bich , Limul., Lye; Mere. ¢.;
Nat s; Nux v.; Or ac.; Phos. ac.; ’hos , Pod.; Rhus t,
Sang.; Sce; Sep.; Sul.; Ver. a.

CECUM, affections of — A1s.; Lach; Rhus v; Ver. v. See
Appendicitis, typhlitis.

COLDNESS -- 42th ; Ambra; Aur. m.; Cadm. s.; Cale. c.;
Camph ; Caps; Cinch.; Colch.: Flaps; Grat.: Nal _ be.
Kah c.. Lach; Menyanth.; Phell.; Phos; Sec.; Sep.
Tab, Ver. a

COLIC — PAIN — Remedies in general: 4con,, Adren.; Aloe

Alunm.,.frg. 2.3 Arn.; Ars.; Bar. «3 Bell.; Bry.; Cajup.

Cale po: Carb. ac.3 Carbo v.; Cham.; Chin. ars; Cie.

Cma, Cinch; Coce., Coff.; _ Collins.; Colch.; Cel.

Crot. t.; Cupr. ac.; Cupr. m; Cyel.; Dig.; Diosc.; Elat.

Fihx oun; Gamb., Grat.; Jya.; Mhe.; Jpec.; Iris teu

Iris, Jal, Tepte; Limul.: Lye 3 May..c; Mag p; Mentha

Ajerc. ¢ ; Mere.; Morph.; Nat. s.; Nue v.; Oniseus; Of.,

Ox. ac.; Paiaf.; Plat.; Plumb. ac.; Plumb. chrom.; Plumb

m.; Pod; Pclyg.; Fuls.; Raph.; Rheum; Rhus t.; Sab.

Samb, San, Senda, Sep, Su, Simup, om.  Stann,

Staph.; Strych.; Thuya; Ver. a.; Vib. of.; Zine m.

CAUSE AND NATURE — Alternates with vertigo: Col.; Spig

Babies’ colic— ‘th; Asat.; Bell.; Cale. p.; Cham.; Cina
Col.; Tle; Jal; Kali br.; Lye; Mag. p.; Mentha pip.
Nepeta; Rheum; Senna; Staph.

Biliary, gall-stone colic — Atrop.; Bell.; Berb. v.; Bry.; Calc.
c., Card m.; Cham.; Chionaath.; Ciach.; Col.; Diose.
Ipec.; Tiis: Lye.; Mentha; Morph. acet.; Pod.; Ricin.
Tereb.; Tiiost. See Gall Bladder,

Chronic tendency —- Lyc ; Staph.

Flatulent colic— Absinth; Agar.; Alfal; Aloe; Anis.; Arg
n.; Asaf; Bell.; But. ac; Cajup.; Carbon. s.; Carbo v.
Cham.; Cina; Cinch ; Coce., Col.; Dtosc.; Hydroe ac.
Llic : Ipec.; Iris; Lye.; Mag. p.; Mentha; Nux v.; Op.
Tiymb. m.; Polygon., Puls.; Radium; Raph.; Robin,
Sang.; Senna; Zine,

From anger — Cham.; Col; Staph.

From carriage riding -— Carbo v.; Coce.

From cold -—- Acon.; Cepa; Cham.; Col.; Nua v.

From eating cheese — Col.

From gastric disorder — Carbo v.;  Cinch.; Col.; Ipec.;
Lyc.: Nur v.; Puls.

From lithotomy, ovariotomy, attending abdominal section
Bism.; Hep.; Raph.; Stapa.

From uncovering — Nux v; Rheum.

From wet feet — Cepa; Cham.; Dolichos; Dulc.
ABDOMEN 885

From worms — Aitom.; ism: Cua, Filix om... Gianat.;
Indigo; Mere. 5; Nat. p.; Sabad., Spie.

Hemorrhoidal -— .fisc ; Col, Nux ov, Puls; Sul.

Hysterical -—— Alct.; -Jsat.; Camp , Cuce.; Jon; Val

Menstrual ~ Bill. Crstor.; Cham., Coce.; Col; L'uls. See
Female Sexual Oigans.

Neuralgic, enteralgia - Alumen; Ant. t, Ars; sftrop.;
Bell., Cham.; Coce.: Col, Cupr ars.; Cupi, m.; Dieses;
Euphorb ; Hydioc. ac; Hyos, Kah c., Mag p., Nur wy
Op: Plumb ac; /’imumb. m, Santon.; Tab.; Ver. as
Zinc m. See Type of Pain

Renal —- Berh. «. ‘ale oc, Diose 3) Kryng.; Lye.; Morph.
acet.; Ocein,; Sars. Tab. Tereh  Sce Urinary System.

Rheumatic - Caust: Col. Diose : Phyt; Ver. a.

Toxic (lead, copper) —-Alumin, lam. Bell, Ferr.; Nat
st Nux v, Op Plat. Sul. Ver oa

LOCATION — Abdominal muscles -—— Acon.;  4rn., — Bell.,
Belhs, Cupr. m.. Wam; Mag. m.; Nato nit., Plumb mm,
Rhus t. Strych > Sul

Abdominal ring — (occ. Graph, Mer. Natom., Nux, v.,
Stront.

Ascending colon Rhus t

Groins— Alum, Am m; Mere ¢; Pod.

Hypochondria— Carbo \.; Ciutch, Diose; Nur av: Pyrus;
Sep. See Type of Pam

Hypogastrium - floc, Kell; Bism, Cepa, Coce: Drose.;
Eucal.; Ham: Kah ec; Lye.; Mag. ¢; Nux v.; Pall;
Pasaf.; Plat.; Sab Sep., Sul; ‘iomb; Ver. v. See
Sexual System.

Neo-caecal — Aloc; Pull: Bry ; Coff ; Ferr. p.3 Gamb.; Tris
ten.: Kali m.: Limul; Mag. c.: Mere. co; Mere s.;
Plumb.; Radiuin; Rhus t See Appendicitis. :

Inguinal —- Am. m.; .\1s.; Cale. ¢ , Graph.; Sep.

In small spots -iiry : Col. Ov. ac

Transverse colon fcii. Cham, Cclch.; Mere. c.3 Raph.

Umbilical (about navel) -.ilee, Hens. ac., Beib. v.; Bow;
Bry; Cale. po, Carbo w, Cham.; Chel; Cina; Col;
Diose.; Duke, Gamb, Granut., Wyper.; Indigo; Kali
bich ; Ipec. Iapt* Lye, Mus m, Nux v.; Pelias; Plat.;
Plumb.; Pals, Raph: Kheum, Senec.; Spig.; Stann.;
Sul.; Ver a. Verbase.

TYPE OF PAIN—Bruised: (2%th.; Allium s.: Apis; Apoc;
Arn, Are: Bellis, Bay . Carbo vi; Col. Con; Kueal ;
Ferr. m.; Ham. Mer. c., Nat. 8.3; Nit. ac; Nuge vs
Phyt.; Puls. Sul.

Colicky, crampy, constricting, cutting. griping, pinching —

con.; -Esc; Agar.; Aloe; Ant. t.; Argem. mex.; Arg.
cy.; Arg on, Arn; Asaf.; Bell.; Bism.; Bry.; Cale. p;
Cham, Cima, Cech, Coce.; Col, Colch.; Con;
Crot. t.. Cupr. ars. Cups, m.; Diosc.; Dule ; Elat.; Eup.
perf.; Fehx mj; Gamb.; Grat.: Hyper.; Ign.; Ipec.: Iris;
Jal, Jatropha, Kal: tich.; Kali_c; Lept.; Lye; Mag. oe;
Maq. p., Mere, c.; Nat. 5.3; Niccol., Nit. ac.; Nes v.; Phos;
Phyt.; Plumb ac., Plumb..chrom.; Polyvg.; Puts.; Radium;
Raph.; Rheum; Sah; See; Sep.;  Spig.; Stann.; Strych.;
Sul.; Tromb.: Fer. a Vib. op.; Zine.

886 ABDOMEN

Pressin: lug-like -- Aloe; Alum.; Anac.; Bell; Bry.
Coen Tyos.; Kali_c.; Mez.; Nux v., CEnoth.; Plat.
Plumb. m.; Puls.; Ran. s.; Sab.; Sep.

Pulsating, bubblirg— Aith.; Aloe; Bar. m.; Bell; Berb. vu.
Cale c.; Ign.; gone.; Selen.; ‘I'arax.

Radiating, shooting, darting, tearing, spasmodic — Acon.
Argem, mex.; Bell.; Bry.; Calc. ¢.; Cham.; Coce.; Col.
Cupr. ac.: Cupr. ars.;_ Drosc.; Graph.; Ipec.; Kali c.
Lyc., Mag. p., Merc.; Morph.; Nux v.; Ox. ac.; Paraf.
Plat, Plumb.; Pod.; Puls.; Sul  Sce Enteralgia.

Stitching -- Agar.; Apis; Arn.; Bell.; Bry.; Chin. ars.; Hep.
Kali c., Lach.; Spig.

CONCOMITANTS — Abdomen retracted, as if drawn by string
—Chel.; Plumb. m.; Pod.; Tab.

Abdomen, retracted, tense, scanty urine, desire to stretch
—Plumb. m.

Abdomen swollen, pad-like — Bell.; Raph.

Agitation, chill ascending from hypogastrium to cheeks
--~Col

Alternates with coryza— Calc. c.

Alternates with delirium and pain in atrophied limbs —
Plumb, m

Alternates with vertigo —Col.; Spig.

Backache — Cham.; Lic., Morph.; Duis; Samb.

Cheeks red, hot sweat — Cham. ,

Chilliness- Nux v., Puls

Collapse — A‘th ; Camph ; Cupr: Ver. a

Constipation — Allium s6.; Alum., Coce; Collins.; Grat ;
Lyc.; Nux v.; Op.; Plumb, ac.; Sil.

Convulsions — Bell., Ciuc

Cram in calves -—- Col.; Cupr. ac.; Plumb. m.; Pod.

Diarrhoea— Ars.; Cham., Col., Mag. c.; Polyg.; Puls.;
Samb.; Ver. a.

Empty feeling, heat, faintness — (Cocc.; Ilydh.

Hands yellow, blue nails — Sil

Hiccough, suffocative, in chest and stomach — Ver. a.

Hunger, yet refuses food— Bar. c.

Itching of nose, pale, bluish face — Cina; Filix m,

Nausea, frequent, watery, slimy stools — Cham.; Samb.

Pain and aching in thighs -— Col.

Periodical recurrence-- Aran.; Cinch.; Diose; Ilhe; Kali

r.

Pulsation in abdominal aorta, epigastric constriction —
ig.

Red urine — Bov.; Lyc.

Rumbling of flatus, nausea, liquid feces -— Polyg.

Scanty stools, flatus without relief — Cina.

Tenesmus (pelvic) --— Staph.

Tossing about, anxiety, no relief from flatus — Cham.;

ag. p.
Urging to stool Aloe; Cinch; Lept ; Nat. s.; Nex wv, Op.
Urine suppressed — Acon.; Plumb. ac.
Vomiting -- Beil.; Cadm, s.; Plumb. ac.
Vomiting, hiccough, belching, screaming — Eyos.
Yawning, spasmodic, drowsiness — Spiranth.
MODALITIES — Aggravation: About 4-5 P. M.: Col.; Kali bt :
ABDOMEN 887

After midnight --4rs.; Cocc.

At night, after supper — Grat

At night -—- Cham.. Coce.; Senna: Sul.

From bending, coughing -— Ars., Kell; Bry.; Nat. m.

From bending forward - Ant. te Sinap. n.

From bending forward, lying down, pressure -— Acon., Diose.

From drinking — Col ; Sul.

From drinking cold water -—- Cupr. m

From eating - Bar c.: Cale. pf, Cal., Kali bich, Nua vy
Psor , Zine.

From jar, pressure — Acon,, Aloe; Bell., Plumb.

From motion, relief from lying on side Biy., Coce

From smoking -— Meuyanth.

From sweets — Filix m.

From touch, pressure, motion By.

From warmth, at night- Cham

AMELIORATION — From bending double - Bov., Cinch , Col.;

Mag p.; P Sep.; Stann., Sul; Ver. a

From eating — tee Homar.

From flatus voided per ano-— loc; Cerbo v.; Cinch, Coce;
Col.; Nat. s.; Sul

From hot applications or warmth- A:s.; Col; Mug. p.;

Puls.; Sil.

From Iying with knees drawn un [ach

From pressure (co! , Alag. pf, Nit ac.; Plumb., Rhus 1;
Stann.

From rubbing — Plumb. m

From rubbing, warmth — Mag. p.

From sitting erect — Sinap. n.

From sitting, lying down — Nux v.

From stool —- Aloe; Col; Tanac.; Ver. a.

From straightening body or moving about — Dhosc.

From Walking about — Cepa; Diosc.; Mag. p.; Puls.; Rhus
ti; Ver. a.

From walking bert over -- Aloe; Col ; Nux v.; Rhus t.

From warm soup --- Acon.

FLATULENT — Distention, fulness, heaviness, meteorism,
tympanites —- Abies n.; Abrot.; Absinth.; Acet. ac.; Acon.;
Agar.; Alfal.; Aloe; Ant. c.5 ‘Apis; Arg. .; Ars; Asaf.;
Bar. c.; Bell.; Bov.; Cajup.; Cale. c.; alc. ied.; Calc. p.;
Carb. ac.; Carbo Us; Cham; Chel.; Cina; Cinch. ; Coac.;
Colch.; Collins ; Col.; Cupr. m.; Diosc.: Graph.; Ign.;
Mag? "Indol; Iris; Kali c.; Lach.; Limul.; Lyc., Mag. c.;

b, Mere c.; Merc.: Mormord.; Mosch ; Mur. ac.;
Naph! Nat c.; Nat. ntt.; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Nux m.; Nux
Oniscus; Op.; Opuntia; Orinthog.; Phos. ac. ; Pod.;
Poth.; Puls.; Radium; Raph., Rheum; Rhod.; Rhus gl;

Rhus. t.; Sars.; Senna; Sep.; Sil., Stront. c.; Sul. Sumb.:
Forex. Tereb., Thea; Thuyo, Uran, n.; Val.; ” Xanth.;
‘ing.

Flatulence, hysterical— Alet.; Ambia; Ar n.; Asa) i Cajup.;
Cham.; Coce.; Jgn.; Kali Ps Nux m.; Biat:: ; Poth. Sump.
Tarax.; Thea; Val.

Flatulence, incarcerated in flexures — Am. c.; Aur.; Bell.;
Cale. c.; Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Cham.; Cinch.; Colch.; Col.;
Graph,. Hep.; Ign.; Kali G5 ; Limul.; Lye; Mormord.;
888 ABDOMEN

Nux 7, Pall; Phos.; Plumb. m.; Puls.; Rapé.; Rhus gl;
Robm ; Staph; Sul; Thuya.

Flatulence, cffensive, per ano --dioc  .Arn.; Bry.; Carbo
v., Ferr. magnet ; Graph ; Oleand.; Sil.

Gurgling, rumbling, borborygmus - - 4/oe; Apoc.; Ars.; Bapt.;
Bell, Carbon. s.; Carbo v.; Cham ; Cima; Cinch.; Colch.;
Col, Conv, Cupr. ars.; Crot t, Diose.; Gamb.; Glycerin;
Graph., Giat, Hep 3 Ipec.; Jatropha, ali c.; Lyc.; Mere.;
Nal s., Nux v3 Oleand.; Phos a, Pod.; Puls.; Ricin.
com. Kumex, Sanic.; Sep.; Sil; ‘Thea; Xerophyl. ;

Hardness = Abrot.; Anac ; Bar. «., Cule_c, Carbo v ; Cina;
Cinch , Cupr., Graph., Lyc.; Nat co; Nux v.; Op; Plumb.
ac., Raph, Sil., Sul.; Thuya

Jumping, as of living thing--.\rundo; Prachygl , Bianca;
Croc, Nux m, Op., Sabad.; Sul; Thuya.

Large, in girls at puberty - Cale. c; Grapi , Lach.; Sul.

Large, pendulous in women who have borne many children
--- Aur. m3; Aur. mur.; Bell; Frax. am, J/elon., Phos.;
Sep.

Large, pot-bellied, flabby— \m m; Cak. ¢., Cale. p.; Mez ;
Pod ; Same; Sep, Siu., Thuya

Retracted, sunken, scow-shaped - Cale p ; Ruphorb , Todof.;
Kah bich , Kali br, Plumb. ac, Plumb. chiom ; Plumb.
m, Ptel.; Quass.; Zine.

Sensitive, tender to touch, pressure \cct ac: .feor , Aloe;
Apis, Arg n, .drn., Ais, Bapt.; Bell, Bow, Bry., Cale.
e3 Carbo v., Card. m+ Cinch., Coft + Col, Con.; Cupr. m5
Fuonym, Ferr om; Gamb; Graph.; Ham, Hedeoma,
Helleh + Kah bich., Lach, Lye. Men. «oo; Mur. ac; Nux
vi; Pod.; Ran. b, Rhus t.; Sep , Sil; Sumb.; Sul; Tereb ;
Ver. a.; Vib. op.

Spots, brown —Caul.; Jive, Phos, Sep., Thuya.

Spots, red Ilyas. See Skin.

Trembling in --Tal t

Weak, as if diarrhoea would ensue -- floc; Ant ¢, Apium
gr.; Bor., Crot. t.; Eucal: ber1. m3 Formica; Nux v.;
Opuntia, Ran. s. See Diarrhcea,

Weak, empty, sinking, relaxed feeling -- \brot; Arn.; Al-
ston.; Ant. c.; Cham.; Cocc.; Euphorb ; Glycenn; Hydr ;
Ign ; Opuntia; Petrol., Physost : Phos., Plumb. ac.; Pod.;
Quass.; Sep.; Stann.; Staph.; Sulphon.; Sul. ac; ber. a.

ANUS — RECTUM — Abscess (peri-rectal): Calc. s; Sil.

Burning, smarting, heat -Abes c. sc... Aloe, Alumen;
Alum; Ambra, Am. mj; Ant c, drs, Bell; Berb. v.;
Canth.; Caps ; Carbo v., Cepa: Chenop. gl.; Collins.,
Con.; Eucal.; Euonym.; Gamb., Graph, than; Hydr ;
Tris, Jugl.c; Jugl r.; Kali c.; Mere.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.,
Qleand , Pwoma, Prun. sp., Ratanh., Rheum; Sang. n.;
Senna; Sui, Tromb

Burning before and during stool--Aluc; Am. m.; Ars.;
Col; Con., Hydt , Mris; Jug] «3; Ol an; Rheum.

Burning after stool—- Esc * Alumen, Am. m.; Ars.; Aur;
Berb. v.; Canth.: Caps. Curboxt.; Chenop. gl.; Gamb.;
Nat. m, Nit. ac; Ol an; Paeoma; Prun. sp.; Ratanh.;
Sil.; Stront ; Sul.
ABDOMEN 889

Congestion -— 4sc.; Aloe; Alum.; Collins , Hyper.; Nat. m.;3

it. ac; Sab.; Sep., Sul.

ERUPTIONS, growths — Cancer, scirrhus of, also sigmoid;
intolerable pains: lumen; Phyt.; Spi.

Condylomata — Benz ac, Kah br; Nit. ac., Thuya.

Eczema — Berb. v.; Graph; Merc. pro rub. See Skin.

Eminences, studding interior - Polyg.

Fissures, rhagades, excoriations, ulcerations, soreness, raw-
ness — 4s. ; Agn; Aloe, Apis; Arg. on. Ars.; Calc.
fi.; Carbo v; Caust, Cimex; Condur., Graph.; Ham;
Zydr., Ign, Iris; Kah 1od.; Lach; Led ; Merc, d.; Merc.;
Morph.; Mur ac; Nat m, Nit ac., Nit. mur. ac;
Paconia; Petrol, Phos; Phyt.; Plat.; Plumb ; Ratanh.,
Rhu t., Sang. n, Sanic; Sedum, Sep.; Sil; Sul; Thuya,
Vib. op.

Fistula in ano- - Aur muu.; Par. mur.; Berd. v.: Cale, £i
Cale. 5., Carbo v; Caust, Fluor, ac.; Graph.; Hydr.;
Lach.; Myrist.; Nit. ac., Nux v, Paconis, Phos.; Quercus;
Ratanh.; Sif, Sul., Thuya.

Pockets — Polygon.

Rash, fiery red in babies - Med.

Hemorrhage (enterrhagia) -.\cal; Acet ac; -€sc.; Aloe;
Alumen, Alum; Arn.; Cact., Carbe wv, Cascar.; Cinch;
Cinnam., Cob.; Cocaine, Crot.; Krig; Hiam ; Ign; Jpec.,
Kah c; Lach.; Gyeop; Mangif. md; Mere. cy.; Afillef.;
Mur. ac., Nat. m.; Nit. ac., Pho» ac.; Phos., Sedum;
Sep., Sul. ac; Sul, Tereb.; Thuya.

Haemorrhage during stool— 4luwmen; Alum.; Carbo v.; Ign ;
Tod.; Ipec., Kal c ; Phos.,; Psor.; Sep.

Inflammation: (proctitis) -~- sc.; Aloe; Alum; Ambra;
Ant. c., Colch.; Collints.; Mere. ¢.; Merc; Nit. ac.,.
Peoma, Phos, Pod , Riem + Sabal; Zing

Inflammation, syphilitic - - Bell; Mere.; Nit. ac.: Sul.

Itching (pruritus) --.\con., sc., Alum; Ambra; Anac.;
Ant c., Bar. c, Bov., Cadm. tod; Cale. ¢; Carbo v.;
Cascar ; Caust, Cina; Colhns.; Cop.; Ferr. tod.; Ferr.
m., Granat.; Graph.; Homar., Jgn.; Indie; Lyc.; Med.;
Nit. ac., Paconia; Petrol.; Phos.; Pin. sylv.; Plat.; Polyg.;
Radium; Ratanh, Rumex; Sabad ; Sacchar. of.; Sang. n.;
Sep; Spig., Staph; Sul; Tellur.; Teucr.; Urany; Zine.

Moisture -— Aloe; Am_m.; Anac., Ant. c; Bar. o3.Cale. c.;
Carbo v, Caust.; Graph ; Hep; Med.; Nit. ac.; Nit. mur.
ac.; Paonia, Phos.; Ratanh.; Sep.; Stl: Sul. ae.

Operations on, to be given preceding — Collins.

PAIN —~ Aching ~~ £sc.; Alct.; Alumen; Collins.; Graph; Lyc ;

‘atanh.

Bearing down, pressing Aloe; Alum ; <Ars.; Cact.; Cean-
oth.; Chenop. gl; Euphras; Hypy.; Kali c.; Lach.; Ls.
ty Med.; Op.; Prun. sp.; Sep., Sul.;' Sul. ac.;° Xerophyl.

Contraction, spasmodic — Esc. gl.; Zisc.; Anac.; Arg. n.,
Bell.; Caust.; Ferr. m.: Grat.; Hydr.; Ign.; Lach.; Lye:
Med.; Meli.: Merc.; Mez.;'’ Nat. m,; Nit. ac., Nit. mur.
ac; Nux 7. Plumd. ac; Ratanh.; Sanic.; Sedum; Sep.;
Syph , Tab; Verbasc.
890 ABDOMEN

Lancinating, even after coft stool - i/umen, Nat. m.; Nit.
ac.; Ratanh.

Long lasting, after stool -.2isc ; \loe; .\wmen; Am. m.;
Graph., Hvydr, Ign, Merc. cy.; fur. ac.; Nat. m.; Nit
ac.; Proma; Ratanh.; Sedum, Sep; Sil.; Sul; Thuya;
Vib. op.

Neuraigic (proctalgia) — Atiop.; Bar. m: Bell.; Colch.;
Crot. t., Ign; Kah c.; Lach.; Lyc., Ox. ac ; Phos.; Plumb.;
Strych., Tar. bh.

Splinter-like, prickling, stinging, stitching, cutting, shooting
— Acon; .Ese.; um.; Am m.;_ Bell.; Caust ; Ccpa;
Collins., Ign.; Kah c.; Lach.; Lye ; Mere.: Mez.; Nat. m.;
Nit_ac.; Plat.; Ratanh.; Ruta: Sep.: Su; Sul; Thuya.

Throbbing, pulsating— Aloe; Aeli.;  Caps.; Tam.; Lach;
Meh., Mere; Nat. m.

PARETIC — Condition of rectum and sphincters —.iloe;
Alum; Caust., Enig., Gels... Graph.; Wyo. ; Op; Oxytr.,
Phos. ac.; Phos , Sil,; Sulphon.; Tab.

Paretic condition of rectum, feels plugged - loc; Anac.;
Can. ind ; Kali bich.; Med.; Plat.; Sep; Sul ac

Paretic condition of rectum, with sense of insecurity of
sphincters — -floe, Alum; Apoe.; Erig: Ferr. mj Nex
v.; Sanic.; Sec.

Patulous anus -—— fis, Phos., Sec; Solan t

PROLAPSUS ANI ~- sc. al.; se: Aloe: Art oa Aral;
drn.; Bell.; Carbo v.; Caust.; Colch ; Ferr. m; Ferr. p.;
Gamb.; Ham., Hydr.; Jgn.; Kah c.; Mag p.; Mur. ac;
Nux v.;  Phos.;  Plumb.; Pod.; Polypor., Ruta; Se}.,
Sulan. tub., Sui; Tab.; Tremb.

Prolapsus after confinement, stooping —— Pod: Ruta.

Prolapsus from debility — Pod.

Prolapsus from sneezing -- Pod.

Prolapsus from straining, overlifting — Nit. ac.; Pod.; Ruta.

Prolapsus from urinating — Mur. ac.

Prolapsus in children — ell. ; Ferr, m.; Ferr. p.; Ign;

ux v.; Pod.

Prolapsus, with diarrhea, stoc! —-Esc.;  iloc; Carbo v.:
Colch.; Crot. t.; Fluor. ac.; Gamb.; Ham.; Ign., Kali c.;
Mur, ac.; Pod.; Phos.; Ruta. Sul

Prolapsus with piles, in alcoholics, leading sedentary life
— JEsc. gl.

Prolapsus with stool, rectal spasm - ~ Ign.

REDNESS — around — Cham; Merc. cy.; Puonias= Sul., Zing.

ss around —(Cham.; Merc. cy.; Pzronia; Sul.; Zing.
See Fissures, Proctitis.

Stricture — Bell.; Coff.; Hydr.; Ign.; Nit. ac.; Phos.; Sil.;
Tab.; Thiosian. See Pain.

Torn, bleeding, after stool--J,ac d.; Nat. m., Nit. ac. See
Fissures,

CATARRH — Gastro duodenal: Card om. (inch. ; Hydr.; Sang.
See Stomach. °

CHOLERA — ASIATICA:,.4con.; Agar. phal.; Ars.; Bell.; Bry.;
Camph.; Canth; Carbo x. in, s.; Cae.; Colch.; Cupr.
ac.; Cupr. ars., Cupr. m.; Dig.: Euphorb. cor.; Guaco
Hydroc. ac , Thee atropha; Kali, pich 5 Lach.; Merc. c

aja; Nux v.; a OS, AC.e oS.; Quass.; Rhus t.
Sec.; Sul.; Tab.; Peieb.: Ver. a.; Zinc. ne
ABDOMEN 891

CHOLERA INFANTUM — Summer complaint: Acon.; th ;

Ant. t.; Apis, Arg. n.; Ars.; Bell; Btsm.; Bry.; Cadm
s; Calc. ac.; Cale. ¢ ; Calc. p.; Camph.; Camph. monobr.
Canth.; Cham.; Cinch ; Col.; Crot. t.; Cuphea; Cupr. ac.
Cupr. ars., Cupr. m.; Elat.; Euphorb. cor.; Ferr. p
Graph ; Hydroc. ac., Indol; lodof ; Ipec.; Iris, Kal hy.
Kreos., Laur., Merc; Nat. m.; Ox, ac.; Passifl.; Phos.
Phyt.; Pod.; Psor.; Resore.; Sec.; Sep.; S14; Sul; Tab.
Ver. a.; Zine. m.

CHOLERA MORBUS Aft. t., Ars.; Bism.; Camph ; Chloral.

Colch.; Col.; Crot. t., Cupr. ars.; Cupr. m.; Elat.; Grat
Hydioe ac.; Ipec., Iris; Opere.; Op; Pod., Sec; Ver. @

CHOLERINE — Ant. c.; Ars; Croft. t.; Cupr. ars; Diose.

Elst; Euphorb, cot.; Grat.; Ipec.; Iris; Jatropha, Nuphar
Phos. ac., Sec.; Ver a.

CONSTIPATION — Remedies in general: .jiies 1.;  Acon

4isc. yl; Zisc., Agar., Alet; Aloe; Alumen, dlum.; Am
ce; Am. m; Anac., Apis; Arn; Asar.; Berb. v.;) Bry.
Cale. c¢, Cale. fl.; Carb. ac.; Case. sag., Canst., Chel.
Chionanth.; Cinch ; Coca; Cellins.; Croc.; Dolichos; Eug
ys» Euonym.; Euplvas , Fel tauri; Ferr. mj; Gels.; Gly
cerm, Graph., Grat, Guaiac, Hep., Hydr., Ign.; Iris
Kah bich., Kah c., Kah m.; Lac d.; Lach; Lact. ac.
Lyc., Maq om, Mez, Morph, Nabalus; Nat om; Nit
ac.; Nit. mur. ac.; Nur v., Nyctanth.; Op., Paraf.; Phos.
Physost.; Phyt, Plat., Plumb, ac., Plumb. mj; Pod
Psov.; Pyr.; Ratanh, Kham. c.; Sanic.; Sclen, Senna
Sep.; Sil; Sil, mar.. Spay. Staph., Strych.; Sul; Sym

phor., Syph.; ‘lab. Tan. ac, Tub Ver. a, aut
Zinc. mur.
CAUSE AND TYPE — Abuse of enemas -— Op

After

confinement, hepatic and uterine inertia -— Mez

Alternating, with diarrhea -- Abrot.; Am. m.; dat. c.; Bry.;
Cale. chlor.; Card. m.; Casear.; Chel; Collins.; Ferr cy.:
iydr.; lod.; Nux v.; Pod.; Ptel.; Radium; Ruta; Sul;

er. a.

From
From
From
From
From
From
m.;
From
From
From

abuse of purgatives ~ Aluc; Hiydr., Nur v, Sul.
cheese — Ccl.

gastric derangements -- Ary,; Hydr.; Nus v., Puls.
going to sea, traveling -- Bry.; /’lat.

gouty acidity -— Gat.

haemorrhoids — sc. pl. #Esc.; Collins.; Hydr.; Nat.
Nuz v.; Pod.; Sul. See Piles.

lead poisoning -~ Op; Plat.

mechanical injuries — Arn.; Ruta.

mental shock, nervous strain — Mag. c.

From peristaltic irregularity — Anac.; Nux 7.

From torpor of rectum— Aloe; Alum.;  Amac.;  Caust.;
finch. Lach.; Lyc.; Nat. m.; Op; Selen.é Sep,; Stl,
er. a.

From

torpor, inertia, dryness of intestines — Zsc,; Eth.;

Alet.; Alumen, Alum.; Bry.; Caffeine; Collins ; Ferr. m.;
Hydr.; Lyc.; Meli.; Mez.; Nat. m.; Nux v.; Op.; Physost.;
a :

t., Plumb, ac., Pyr.; Sanic.; Selen.; Sul.; Ver. a.
892 ABDOMEN

Infants, bottle fed -— Alum.; Nua v.i Op.

Infants, children — 4:sc., Alum.; Apis, Bell.; Bry.; Cale.
c.; Caust.; Collns., Croc; Hydr.; Lyc., Mag. m., Nux v.;
Nyct. arb. t1, Paraf.; Pod; Psor., Same.; Sep.; Sul;
Sul.; Ver. a

In old people — Alum.; Ant. c.; Hydr.; Lyc.; Op.; Phyt.;
Selen.; Sul.

In rheumatic subjects, flatulence, indigestion — Mag. p.

In women - - Jlisc.; Alet.; dlum., Ambra; Anac.; Arn.; Asaf.;
Biy., Cale. ¢.; Colhns.; Con., Graph.; Hydr.; 1gn.;
Lach ; Lyc.; Mez.; Nat. m.; Nux v.; Op. Plat.; Plamb.,
Pod, Puls; Sep., Sil; Sul

TYPE OF STOOL — Dry, crumbling, at verge of anus: 4m.
m., Mag. m.; anic.; Zinc

Dry, difficult, scanty, ‘cnotty, ball or dung-like — Esc. gl.;
“isc.: Alumen, Alum.; Astes.; Bar. c, Card. m.; Caust.3
Chel , Colhns.; Glycerin; Graph. .s Indol; Lye, Mag m.,
Morph; Nit. ac.; Nur v.; Op.; Petro! , Plat ; Plumb.;
Pyr., Sop. Sul.; Ver. a; Verbase. 3 Xerophyl , Zinc.

Dry, large, painful — sc. ; 3; Alet.; Aloe; Alum, Bry., Cale.
«; Caust., Glycerin; Graph , Kali c., Lac d.; Mel; Nat
m.; Nux v.; Op.; Pyr.; Sanic. ; Selen., Sep ’; ; Sul; Ver.
a.; Vib. op,

Dry, must be mechanically removed -—— .\Juc: Alum; Bry ;
Cale. c; Indol; Op., Plumb.; Ruta; Sanic, Selen., Sep.,
Sik; Ver. a

Dry, with frequent urging — Aluwren; sinac ; Aster.; Carbo
vi: Caust., Con; Ferr mi: Glyceiin; Granat , /gn.. lod.;
Lac d.; Lyc., Nit. ac.; Nit. mur. ac; Nux. v.; Paraf.;
Plat; Phoe + Pods Robin; Rutazy Sl: Sep; Snig.; Sul.

Dry, with partial expulsion “and receding — Op; 3 Samic.; Sal,

“ya.

Frequent, ineffectual urging —- Anac.; Graph.; Lyc.; Nat.
m.; Nerv z., Plat, Sul.

Hard - .3sc.; Aloe, <im. m., Ant. c; Bar. c; Bry.; Cale.
c.; Chel.; Con.; Glycerin; Indol; Lyc., Alag. m; Nat. m.,
Op... Phos . Plumb ; Sanic ; Selen.; Sul,

Hard, covered with mucus -.\lum.; 9 Am. om.; — Cascar.;
Caust. Collins , Cop.; Graph.; Hydr., Nux v.; Sep.

Hard, then pasty liquid -Cale c.; Lyc.

Light colored, grayish, chalky -- Acon; Alumen; Cale c.,
Chei, Clnonanth.; Cotch.; Collins. ; Diy. Dolichos; Nep.,
livdr., Ibers; Indol; hali m.: Mere : Pod ; Stellar.

No desire or urging — Erv., Graph: five + Of.

Pasty, tenacious, adhering to anus— Alum, Chel.;  Chi-
onanth.; Plat.

Slender, quill-like — Arn.; Caust.; Phos , Staph.

Soft stool even passed with difficulty - \gn.: \lun.; Ansc.,
Chel: Chionanth.: Plat.; Sil,

CONCOMITANTS — Abdominal weakness, shuddering: Plat.
us very sore —- Graph. ; Nat. m.; Sil

Backache ~Ese., suonym. » Ferr.; Kah bich.: Sul See

Bleeding -— Alum.: Am. m.; Anac.; Cale. Pe Colfins.; Tac
a3; Lamune, Morph. ; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.. Nur v.; Phos.;
Psor.; Sep.; Vib. op.
ABDOMEN 893

Colic, cramps - Collins, Cupr;: Glons Ops Phonh, ac.
Contraction, spasmodic of anus -— Caust.; Tach., Lye;
Nat. m.; Nit. ac; Plumb. ac.; Sil, See Rectum
Fainting -- Ver a.
Fetor oris — Carh. ac., Op.: Psor.
Gall-stones, jaundice - Clnunanth See Gall Bladder,
Headache -Pry.; Gels > Hyd), Ins; Nux v.; Sep.; Ver. a.
See Headache.
Heart weak —DPhyt; Spig.
Nervous, from presence of others, even nurse - -.\mbia.
Pain, compels child to desist from effort -- Lyc.; Sul.; Thuya.
Passes better standing -- Caust
Piles - 4isc, Aloe, lumen: Calc. fl; Collins.; Euonym.;
Glon ; Graph ; Kali s; Lye; Nit. ac; Nur v., Paraf.;
Ra.anh., Sil; Sul, Wyeth See MWamerrhoids.
Prolapsus — Zsc., .\lum, Ferr. m.; Jas, Lye.; Med.; Pod.;
Kuta, Sep.; Sul Sce Rectum
Prostate enlarged - Ain Sil, See Male Sexual System.
Prostatic fluid — Alum.; ep.
Rectal pain, persistent — isc.;  Alumen, Caust.; Hydr.;
Jgn., Lye. Nat m, Nit ac., Ratanh.; Thuva, See Rectum.
Sensation of lightheadedness - -- Jndol.
Sensation of something remaining behind lve; Lyc ; Nat.
m; Nax iv, Sep: So; Sul.
Urging absent, no desire —dlum.; Bry.; Graph.; Hydr.;
Indol Op., Same, Sul: Ver, a.
Urging felt in lower abdomen — .\loe. Sce Frequent Urg-
ing.
Urging felt in upper abdomen —~ Anac; Ignu.: Vet a
DIAPHRAGM — Inflammation (diaphragmitis): Atrop.; Bell;
Bism.; Bry.; Cact.; Cupr.; Wep.; Hyos.; lgn.; Nua v.;
Ran. b.; Stram.; Ver. v. .
Pain — Asaf.; Rism, Bry, Cact.; Cim, Nat. m.; Nux v.;
Sec.; Spig.; Stanw.; Sticta; Strych.; Ver. a.; Zinc. ox.
Rheumatism -- Bry ; Cact : Cun.; Spig.; Sticta.
DIARRHOEA — Enteritis: Acute: Acal.; Acet. ac.; Acon.;
ZEth, Agar. phal.; Aloe; Alston.; Andros.; Ant c.; Ant.
t.; Apts. Apoc; Arg. n.; Arn.; Ars.; Ars. iod.; Asaf.;
Bapt., Bell; Benz ac; Bism.; Bov.; Bry.; Cadm. s.; Cale.
ac.; Cale c, Cait. p, Camph., Canth ; Caps.; Carb. ac.;
Carbo v., Cham.; Chel.; Chin. ars; Cina; Cinch.; Colch.;
Collins.; Col.; Corn. c.; Crot. t.; Cuphea; Cupr. ac.; Cupr.
ars.; Cych; Dulc.; Echin.; Elet.; Epilop.; — Eucal.;
Euphorb. cor.; Ferr. m.; Ferr, p.; Fluor. ac.; Formica;
Gomb.; Gels.; Grat.; Helleb.; oR Hyos.; Iod.; Ipac.;
Iris: Jal.; Jatropla; Kah bich.; ali_chlor.; Kali Bi
Tept.; Mag. c; Merc. d.; Merc. s.; Merc. v.; Morph;
Mur. ac.; Nat. m; Nat. s.; Nit. ac.; Nuphar; Nux v.;
Oleand.; Op.; Opuntia; Oreodaph.; Paonia; Petrol;
Phos. ac.; Phos.; Physost.; Pod.; Polyg.; Prus..sp.; Psor.;
Puls.; Rheum; Rhus t.; Rhus v.; Ricin. com.; Rumez;
Santon.; Sec.; Sep.; Sil; Sul; Sul ac.; Tab.; Tereb.;
Thuya, Vai., Ver. a.; Zine.; Zing. .
894 ABDOMEN

Chronic —— Acet. ac; Aloe; Angust ; Ant. ¢.; Arg. n ; Arn.;
Ars., Ars. iod; Bapt; Calc. c.; Cale. p; Cetraria: Cha-
parro; Cinch., Coto; Cupr. ars.; Elaps; Ferr. m.; Gamb.
Graph. : Hep.; Iod.; Todof.; Ipec ; Kali bich.; Lach.; Lact.
ac; Liatris: Lye Mag. m.; Mere. dis Merc.: Nahalus;
Nat. s., Nit. ac.; Oleand.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Pod.; Psor.;
Puls.; Rhus ar.; Rhus t.; Rumex; Strych. ars.; Sul.;
Thuva; Tub.; Urt.

CAUSE -— OCCURRENCE — Alternates with headache: Aloc;

‘od.

From acids — Aloe; Ant, c.; Phos ac.; Sul

From acute diseases --- Carbo v.; Cinch ; Psor. See Typhoid
‘ever.

From alcoholic abuse — Ars.; 3 Lach.; Nux v.

From anger — Cham.; Col.

From bathing -~ 1n?. c.; Pod

From beer, ale — Alov; Cinch; Ipec.; Kals bich., Mur, ac.;

Sul
From cabbage —- Bry ; Pctrol.
From camping -~ Alston.; Jugl c.: Pod

From catarrh, bronchial, suppressed’ —- Sang.
From change of weather, draughts —-.fcon , Bry, Cale s.;
Caps.; Colch.; Dule.; Ipec.; Merc.; Nat. s.; Rhus t.;

Si
From chilling cold drinks, ices —-.dcon.;  Agraph.; Ars;
Bell.; Rry., Camph + Carbo v; Caust; Cham.; Grat.;

Nux 'm.: Puls + Staph.

From coffee — Cistus; Cvcel.; Ox ac.

From coryza ceasing — Sg.

From disorganization —- .\rs

From eggs --- Chin ars.

From emotional excitement, fright — Acon.; Arg. n.; Gels.;
Hyos.; ; Ign; Kali p.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Puls; Ver. a;

From eruptions repelled — Ant. t.; Apis; Bry.; Dule.; Psor ;

From fats — Cycl.; Kali m.; Puls,

From food, crude — Cham.

From fruits — Ars.; Bry.; Cale. p.; Cinch.; Cistns; Col.;
Crot. t.; Ipec.; Pod.; Puls.; Ver. a.; Zing.

From gastric derangements — Ant. c.; Bry.; Cinch.; Col.;
Ipec.; Lye} Nux 2.3 Puls

From high game — Crot.; ; Pyr.

From hot weather -— Acon.; Aloe; Ambros; Ant. c.; Azs.;
Bry., Camph.; Caps.; ; Cham.; Cinch.; Crot. tie Cuphea;
Ferr. Pe Gamb ; Ipec.; Iris; Mere.; Pod; ; Sil; Ver. a.

From hyperacidity — Cham.; Rheum; Robin.

From intestinal atony, debility — Arg. n.; Caps. Cinch;
Ferr., Gnauthe; Oreodaph.; Sec.

From jaundice — Chionanth.; Dig.; Nux v.

From meat putrescent — Ars.; Crot.

From milk— £1/..; Calc. ci + Cinch.; Lye.; Mag. c.; Mag. m.;
Nat. c.; Niccol.; Sep ; Sul.

From motion —- Apis; Bry.; Cinch.; Colch.; Nat. s,

From nephritis — Tereb.
894 ABDOMEN

Chronic —— Acet. ac; Aloe; Angust ; Ant. ¢.; Arg. n ; Arn.;
Ars., Ars. iod; Bapt; Calc. c.; Cale. p; Cetraria: Cha-
parro; Cinch., Coto; Cupr. ars.; Elaps; Ferr. m.; Gamb.
Graph. : Hep.; Iod.; Todof.; Ipec ; Kali bich.; Lach.; Lact.
ac; Liatris: Lye Mag. m.; Mere. dis Merc.: Nahalus;
Nat. s., Nit. ac.; Oleand.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Pod.; Psor.;
Puls.; Rhus ar.; Rhus t.; Rumex; Strych. ars.; Sul.;
Thuva; Tub.; Urt.

CAUSE -— OCCURRENCE — Alternates with headache: Aloc;

‘od.

From acids — Aloe; Ant, c.; Phos ac.; Sul

From acute diseases --- Carbo v.; Cinch ; Psor. See Typhoid
‘ever.

From alcoholic abuse — Ars.; 3 Lach.; Nux v.

From anger — Cham.; Col.

From bathing -~ 1n?. c.; Pod

From beer, ale — Alov; Cinch; Ipec.; Kals bich., Mur, ac.;

Sul
From cabbage —- Bry ; Pctrol.
From camping -~ Alston.; Jugl c.: Pod

From catarrh, bronchial, suppressed’ —- Sang.
From change of weather, draughts —-.fcon , Bry, Cale s.;
Caps.; Colch.; Dule.; Ipec.; Merc.; Nat. s.; Rhus t.;

Si
From chilling cold drinks, ices —-.dcon.;  Agraph.; Ars;
Bell.; Rry., Camph + Carbo v; Caust; Cham.; Grat.;

Nux 'm.: Puls + Staph.

From coffee — Cistus; Cvcel.; Ox ac.

From coryza ceasing — Sg.

From disorganization —- .\rs

From eggs --- Chin ars.

From emotional excitement, fright — Acon.; Arg. n.; Gels.;
Hyos.; ; Ign; Kali p.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Puls; Ver. a;

From eruptions repelled — Ant. t.; Apis; Bry.; Dule.; Psor ;

From fats — Cycl.; Kali m.; Puls,

From food, crude — Cham.

From fruits — Ars.; Bry.; Cale. p.; Cinch.; Cistns; Col.;
Crot. t.; Ipec.; Pod.; Puls.; Ver. a.; Zing.

From gastric derangements — Ant. c.; Bry.; Cinch.; Col.;
Ipec.; Lye} Nux 2.3 Puls

From high game — Crot.; ; Pyr.

From hot weather -— Acon.; Aloe; Ambros; Ant. c.; Azs.;
Bry., Camph.; Caps.; ; Cham.; Cinch.; Crot. tie Cuphea;
Ferr. Pe Gamb ; Ipec.; Iris; Mere.; Pod; ; Sil; Ver. a.

From hyperacidity — Cham.; Rheum; Robin.

From intestinal atony, debility — Arg. n.; Caps. Cinch;
Ferr., Gnauthe; Oreodaph.; Sec.

From jaundice — Chionanth.; Dig.; Nux v.

From meat putrescent — Ars.; Crot.

From milk— £1/..; Calc. ci + Cinch.; Lye.; Mag. c.; Mag. m.;
Nat. c.; Niccol.; Sep ; Sul.

From motion —- Apis; Bry.; Cinch.; Colch.; Nat. s,

From nephritis — Tereb.
ABDOMEN 895

From noxious effluvia — Bapt.; Carb. ac.; Crot.

From onions -- Thuya

From oysters -— Brom.; Lye; Sul. ac

From perspiration checked — 4dcun.; Cham.; Ferr. p.

From pork -.\con lyc. Puls.

From sweets --./rg. 1., Calc. »., Gamb.; Mere. v.

From tobacco -- Cham.; Tab.

From tuberculosis— Acet ac; Arg. n.;\ Arn; Ars.; Ars.
vod., Bapt.; Bismn; camel, Coto; Cups. ars,, _Elaps;
Ferr. m.; lod., lodof.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Puls.; Rumex.
See Tuberculosis,

From typhoid fever -- ./rs. Bapt, Kchin.; Epilob.; Eucal.;
Hyos., Lach : Mur. ac., Nuphar; Op; Phos. ac.; Rhus ¢.,
Stram. See Typhoid Fever.

From ulceration of intestines - Kali bich.; Mete. c

From urination Aloe; Alam; Apts.

From vaccination —- $1/., Thuya.

From veal — Kali n.

From vegetables, melons - .{1s., ?ry.; Petrol, Zing.

From water polluted — .//stun., Camph ; Zing.

In infants, children - foon., A2th., Apis; Ary. #.;) Ars.;
Arundo: Bapt.; Bell.; Benz ac.; Bism.; Bor.; Cale ac;
Cale. c., Cale. p.; Camph.; Cham.; Cinch.; Cina; Col.;
Colost.; Crot. t.; Dule.; Ferr ; Giat.; Helleb.; Lpec.; Jal.;
Kali bi ; Areos.; Laur; Tye.; Lyssin, Mag. c; Mere. ¢;
Merc. d; Mere.; Nit ac; Nus 2; Paul; Phos. ac;
Phos.; Pod, Psor., Rhewm, Sabad.; Sep: Sih, Sulu,
Val: Fer. a.

Infants (dentition) - .\cct. cc; .lcow.; 4ith.; Arundo; Bell ;
Benz. ac; Bor; Cale. ac; Cale. c.; Cale. p.; Cham;
Ipec.; Jal: NWreos, Mag. ¢., Mere. v.; Oleand.; Phyt.;
Pod. Rheum; Si

In old people -- Ant c., Bov.; Carbo v.; Cinch; Gamb.;
Op.; Phos.; Sud

In women, before and during menses-- .\m. c; 20%.; Ver
a. See Female Sexual System,

In women, lying-in period —Cham.; /iyes.; | Psur.; Sec.;
Stram.

TYPE OF STOOL —Acrid, excoriating, burning: .{1s.; Carbo
v.3 Cham.; Cuphea, Graph., Iris: Kreos.; Aferc. c ; Mere.
d.; Mere. v., Pod., Sul, Tereb.

Bilious —- Ant. t.; Bry , Card. m.; Cham; Cinch.; Corn. c.;
Crot. t; Fhuot. ac.; Gamb.; Ipec.; Iris; Jugl. ¢.; Lept.;
Lyc; Mere d, Merce; Nat, s.; Nyctanth.; Pod.; Puls.;
Sang., Tarax.; Yucca.

Black ---.4rs., Brom; Camph.; Caps, Carb. oc.; Cinch.;
Crot.; Eelun > Lefr; Morph; Op.; Psor.; Pyr.; Scilla,
Stram.; Sul. ac.; Ver. a.

Blood-streaked slime -- Agar.; Aloe; Arg. n.; Arn; Bell;
Canth.; Caps.; Col; Cupr, ars.; Euphorbia; Ipec.; Lil.
t.; Kreos.: Mag. c.; Merc. c.; Mere. d.; Mere. uj Nux
z., Pod.; Psov.; Rhus t ; Sul.; Trill, See Dysentery.

Bloody -—.Eth.; Ail.; Aloe; Arg. n.; Arn.; Ars.; Bapt.;
Bothrops: Cadm. s.; Canth.; Caps.; Carb. ac.; Colch.;
Col.; Crot.: Cupi. ais; Duley; Ferr. p.; Ham; lpecs
Kah bich., Kreos.; Lach.; Merc. c.; Merc. dij Merc. v.;
896 ABDUMEN

Nui .., Phos, Pod.; Sec., Senec.; Sul.; Tereb.; Tromb.;
Val.

Brown, dark Apis, Arn.; Ars.; Asaf; Bapt.; Bry.; Cinch.;
Col; Corn. ¢, Cupr. de.; Cupr. ars.; Ferr. mur.; Graph.;
Kali bich; Kreos.; Lept.; Mur. ac; Nux v.; Pod.; Psor.:
Pyr.. Raph., Rheum; Rumex; Scilla; Sec.; Senec.; Sul.;

ub.

Changeable -\m om; Cham, Euonym.; Mere. v.; Pod.;
Puls. Sane: Sale; Sul.

Clay-colored, chalk-like, light-colored — Aloe; Bell.; Benz.
ac.; Berb. v.; Cale. c., Chel: Dig; Euphorbia; Gels.;
Hep, Kah c; Merc. d.; Merc. v.; Myr.; Phos. ac.; Phos.;
Fod.; Sep

Coffee-ground-like, mealy — Crot. t.;  Dig.; Lach; Pod.;
‘Tart. ac.

Colliquative (debilitating) — Acct ac ; Angoph ; Arist.; Ars.;
Cinch, Colh., Coto; Cupr. ars.; Diose.; Elaps; Kal p.;
Phell : Phos., Sec., Sep.; Tab., ‘Tart. ac; Upas; Ver. o.

Fatty, oily - Caust.; Jod ; Iris; Phos.

Fermented, flatulent, noisy, spluttering expulsion — Acal.;
Agar.; .\lfal.; Aloe; Apoc; Arg. n; Arn.; Benz. ac.;
Bor.; Cale, p.; Cham.; Cinch., Col.; Corn, ec: Crot. 4,
Elat : Gamb.; Graph.; Grat., Gummi; Iod ; Ipec., Jatropia;
Kali bich ; Vag. c.; Nat. sulphuros.; Nat. s., Op.; Phos.
ac.; Phos: Poa.; Puls; Rheum; Rhus t; Sec.; Sticta;
Sul; Thuya, Triost.; Ver. a.; Yucca.

Frequent. Acct ac.; Acon.; Aloe; Ars; Cale. ac.; Caps.;
Carbo 7, Cham; Cinch; Crot. t.; Cuphea; Cupr. ars.;
Flat.; Ipec; Mag. c.; Merc. c.: Merc. wv; Nit. ac.; Nux
v.; Phos. ac; Fod., Rheum, Rhus t., Sil; Sul; Tereb.;
Ver. a.

Frog spawn or scum-like — Helleb.; Mag. c; l’hos.

Gelatinous, jelly-like —.iloc; Cadm. s; Colch.; Col.; Eu-
phorbia; Helleb., Kah bich.; Oxvtr.; Phos.; Rhus t.

Green - feon; Aith.; Ant. t.; pis; Arg. n., Ars; Bell.;
Bor., Bry.; Cale. ac.; Cale. c.; Calc. p.; Cham.; Col.;
Crot. t.; Pule.; Elat ; Gamb., Gels.; Grat; Gummi; Hep ,
Todof.; Ipec.; Iris; Kreos., Laur.; Mag. c.; Mere c.;
Merc. d.* Merc, «., Mes., Paul; Phos.; Pod.; Puls.;
Sal. ac.; Sec.: Sul.; Val.; Ver. a.

Green, turning to blue -— Calc. p.; Phos.

Gurgling, gushing —-Aloc; Apis; Crot. t., Elat.; Gamb.;
Grat, Gummi; Jatropha; Kali bich.; Merc. s;. Nat. s.;
Petiol.: Fhos.; Pod.; Sang; Scc.; Thuya, Ver. a. See
Fermented.

Hot -~ Calc. p.; Cham.; Diose.; Ferr.; Merc. c.; Merc. sul.;
Pod.; Sul. See Acrid,

Involuntary - -.4lce; Apis; Apoc.; Arn; Ars.; Bapt.; Camph.;
Carlo uv; Gels.: Helleb.; Hyos.; QP Phos. ac.; Phos.;
Pod.; Pyr.; Rhus t., Seco: Strych.; Sul; Ver. a.: Zine.

Involuntary, as if anus were wide open— Apis; Phos.; Sec.;
Tromb

Involuntary, when passing flatus—-d/o:, Cale. c; Iod.;
Mur. ac.; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Oleand ; Phos. ac.; Pod.; Pyr.

Involuntary, when passing urine — Aloe, Alum.; Apis; Cic ;
Hyos.; Mur. ac.; Seslla, Sul.; Ver. a.
ABDOMEN 897

Lumpy, hard— Aloc. .!nt.c., Bar c., Bell.; Bry, Cham;
Cina; Con; Cub. Glon., Graph., Mag. c., Petrol; Phos.;
Pod., Senec.; Tromb

Mucous, slimy—-.fioc. \m om; Ant. c; Aps; Arg. #3
Arn,, Ars., Rell, Bor; Cale ac; Cale. p.; Canth., Caps.;
Carb. ae.; Carbe vv. Cham.; Cina, Cinch; Coce 3 Cold;
Col; Dule., Fou: Graph: Gummi; Helleb ; Hep.; Ipec ;
Kah me: Laur: May. c., Merc. ¢., Mere. di; Mere s;
Mere. wv. Nit. ac. Nur wv, Phos; Prun, sp; Puls.:
Kheum: Ricm com. Rhus t. Ruta; Sep; Spig.; Sul ;
Urt. Sce Dyseutery.

Non-debilitating --- Cal. c. Graph; Phos ac.; Puls.

Offensive, cadaverous - .\il; Ant c.; Arg nj; Arn, its;
Asaf; Asclep. 1; RBapt; Benz. av.. Bism; Bor.; RBrv :
Cale c.; Cale ps Carb. acy Carbo u.: Cham.; Cinch.;
Col; Corn. ¢.. Graph, Hep; Kah j.; Kreas ; Tach.;
Lept ; Mere c. Mere. d, Mere v.; Nit. ac, Op; Petrol;
Phos. ac.; Phos. Pod, Psor, Pulex, Pyi.; Rheum, Rhus
t., Same.; Srilla, Sec Si, Stram., Sul ac.; Sul; Tereb

Painless — \lfal: — f/sten Amanita. Apes. Ars: Hapt,
Belhs; TRism.; Vor. Chaparro, Cinch , Coleh; Crot. 1;
Dule ; Ferrn m, Gels. Graph , Grat., Hep 3 ives : Ipec.;
Nit ac; Phos ac. Phos, Pod.: Psor; L'uls., Rhus t;
Riein 5; Sela; Sal. Sul

Papescent -— sc. Alfal.; Aloe; Ars.; Bism: Bor.; Bry.;
Chel. Cinch, Ceol. Cvel. Gamb, Gels. Graph; Lept.;
Mag. c: Merc. d: Mere; Nit. ac; Pwonia; Pod, Rheum;
Sep, Sil; Sud. Val- Zine.

Profuse—— Ant c. ./saj.. Benz. ac, Bism: Bry ; Cale ac.;
Cale c¢; Chel. Cinch ; Coto; Crot. t, [lat., Euonv.,
Fuphot. ¢, Gamb., Jetropha; Tept., Mere; Nat. mt;
Operc.: Paul... Phos Pod, Psor, Rhus t.; See, Sticta;
Tereb.; Thuya, Ver. a

Purulent -- Apis; .Arn.; Cale. s.; Hep.; Mere , Phos.; Sil.

Rice-water —.frs. Camph; Jatropha, Kah p.; Mere. 8.3
Ricm com.; T’er, a.

Sago or taHow particles, like — Phos.

Scanty -Acon.; Aloc, Ars; Bell ; Camph.; Canth ; Caps.;
Colch.: Col; Mere. c.. Mere. di; AMlerc, v., Nux iv;
Oleand.; Sul. Sce Dysentery.

Shreddy, stringy, membranous, like scrapings of intestines
— Aloe; Arg_on.; Ars; Asar.; Bolet ,  Canth.; Carb.
ac., Colch.; Kali n.; Merc. ¢c.; Mere.; Nit. ac.; Pod.;
Puls.; Sul. ac.

Sour — Calc. ac.; Calc. c.; Colch.; Col.; Colost.; Graph.; Hep. ;
dal.; Wag. c.; Mere. v.; Nit. ac.; Pod., Rheum; Robin.;
Sul.

Spinach chopped, like — Acon.; Arg. n.; Cham. .

Sudden, imperative, Sapnet weit Aloe: Cinch.; — Cistus;

rot. t.; Gamb.; Zsl, t: Nat. c.: Pxonia; Pod.; Psor.;
Rumex, Sul.. Tromb.; Tub: Ver. a. , ,

Tenacious, glairy -— Asar.; Caps.; Crot. t.; Helleb.; Kah
ah ci Mucous. kth

Undigested, lienteric— -Eth.; Ant. c.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Asar.;
Bry.; Cale. c.; Cale. p.; Cham.; Cinch.; Crot. t.:  Ferr.
ac.; Ferr. m.; Ferr. p.; Graph.; Wep.; lodof.; Mag. ¢.;
898 ABDOMEN

Nit. ac; Nux m.; Nux v.; Oleand.; Phos. ac.; Phos.;
Pod.; Psor.; Puls ; Sul; Val.

Watery, like washing of meat — Canth.; Phos.; Rhus t.

Watery, thin -- Acet. ac.; Acon.; ith; Aloe; Alston.; Ant.
c: Ant. t.; Apis; Apoc.; Ars.; Asaf; Bapt ; Benz. ac.
Riom.; Bor; Bry.; Cale. ac.; Cale. c.3 Cak. p.; Carbo v.
Cham.; Chel; Cinch.; Colch.; Col.; Crot_ t.,  Cuphea
Cupr ars.; Cycl.; Elat., Ferr. m.; Gamb., Graph.; Grat.
ep: Hlyos ; lod.; Iodof.; Ipec.; Tris, Jal.; Jatropha.
Kali bich.; Kali n.; Laur.; Lept.; Mag c., Mur. ac.; Nat
s; Oleand.; Operc.; Petrol.; Phos. ac; Phos., Pod.,
I’sor., Puls.; Rheum; Rhus t.; Rumex; Sec ; Senec.; Sul,
Tab.; Thuya; Tiomb.; Ver. a.; Zinc.

White Acon.; Aut c.; Bel., Bens ac, Cale. c.; Caust.;
Cham.; Chel.; Cina; Cocc.; Cohh.; Crot; Cub.; Dig.;
Dule.; Helleb.; Hep.; lod; Kali m; Mag c.; Mere. d.;
Meie.: Mez.; Nux m.; Phos ac.; Phos.; Pod.; Puls,;
Tromb.

Yellow — Aith.; Agar.; Alfal.; Aloe; Apis; drs ; Asar ; Bor.;
Cale. c.; Card. m.; Cham.; Chel.; Cinch ; Col; Crot. t.:
Cycl.; Dule ; Gamb.; Gels; Grat.; Gummi; Hep.; Hyos.;
Ipec.: Mere.; Nat. c.; Nat. s.; Nuphar; Nux m.; Phos.
ac.; Pod.; Puls.; Rheum: Rhus t.; Senna; Sep; Sul.;
Thuya

CONCOMITANTS—BEFORE STOOL: Chilliness: Ars ; Camph.;
Flat.; Merc. v.; Phos: Ver. a.

Colic, cramps —-.2th.; Aloc; Alston; Bell., Bor.; Cascar.;
Cham , Cina: Cinch.; Col.; Crot. t.3 Cupre ars; Diose.;
Dule.; Elat; Gamh.; Gummi; /pec.; Iris; Lept.; Afag. c.;
Merc. c 3 Mere dit Mere; Nux v. Rheum; Senna; Sul;
Tromb.; Ver. a; See Colte.

Flatulent rumbling --- dioe, Asaf.; Carbo v.;  Colch.; Col.;
Gamb,, Kali c; Nat. s ; Oleand.; Pod.; Puls.

Nausea - Bry., Cliom., ac; Colch.; Ipec.; Mere. v.; Rhus
t.; Sep.

Urging, painful — Alive, Ars.; Bell; Camph.; Cistus; Col.;
Con.; Crot. t.; Formica; Gamb.; Grat.; Hep.; Ign.; Kal
Inch.; Lept.; Mere ci: Merc. di; Mere. v.; Nux v.;
Oleand.; Phos.; Pod , Rheum; Sil.; Stront., Sul.; Ver. a.

DURING STOOL — Backache: isc ; Caps; Colch.; Nux v.;
tls.

Burning in anus -~ {loe; Ars.; Canth.; Carbo v.; Chenop.
al.; Con.; Irts; Jugl ¢, Mere. d.; Mur. ac.; Pod.; Prun.
lie Ratanh ; Rheum: Tiomb.; Ver. a. See Anus

Chilliness — 4rs.; Bell.; Calch.; Upee.; Jatropha; Merc. v.;
Rheum; Ricin. com ; Sec.; Tromb.; Ver. a.

Colic, cramps —.f{loe; Alston.; Ars.; Bry.; Camph: Canth.;
Caps , Ceanoth.; Cham., Cinch; Col.; Crot. t.; Cupr. ars.;
Curr. m.; Dule.; Elat.; Gamb.; TIpec.; Isis; Jatropha;
Lept.; Merc. ¢ Mere di: Merc. v.. Pod; Rheum; Ricin.
com.; Sec; Sil; Sul; Triost.; Tromb.; Ver. a.; Zing.
See Colic.

Fainting - Alve; .frs.; Crot.; Merc. 1; Nux m.; Sul.

Flatus, fetid, expelled-— Agar.; Aloe; Arg. n.; Cale, p.;
Carbo vw, Cinch; Ten; Jatropha; Nat. s, Phos. ac.;
Pod: Thuya
ABDOMEN 899

Hunger — Aloc; Sec.

Nausea, vomiting — Eth.: Ant. ¢., .49s.; Bism.; Camph.;
Carb. ac.; Chrom. ac.; Colch.; Crot. t.; Cupr.; Filix m.;
Ipec.; Ins; Jatropha; Mere ; Opuntia; Phos., Pod., Tab.;
Triost.; Ver. a.

Pain tearing down posterior limbs -- Rhus t.

Stinging pains— _ Caps.

Tenesmus of bladder — Canth ; lal. t.; Mere. c.

Tenesmus, relieved by stool — Nux v.

Tenesmus, urging painful— 4con., Aloe; Angoph.; Arn;
Ars.; Bell., Cale. c.; Canth., Caps.; Carb. ac.; Colch;
Col., Crot. t.; Cuphea; Cupr. ac.; Cupr. ars.; Hep.; lgn.;
Ipec.; Kalt bich.; Kali n.; Liatris; Mag. c.; Merc. c.;
Mere, d.; Merc. s.; Merc «.; Morph.; Nit. ac; Nur v.;
Op.; Phos.; Plumb. ac.; /’od.; Rheum; Khus t.; Senec.;
Su.; Sul; Tab.; Tromb.; Ver. a.

Vomiting, hiccough, suffocative, in stomach and chest —

Ver. a.

AFTER STOOL — Anus burning: Alvce; Apoc.; Ars ; Canth.;
Caps., Carbu v.; Col.; Gamb,; Grat.; Iris, Kali_c.3; Mere.
c.3 Mere, s.; Merc. v.; Nit. ac. Oleand.; Prug. sp.;
Ratanh.; Sul.; Tromb.; Ver. a. See Anus.

Coldness — Aloe; .irs, Camph.; Canth ; Caps.; Carbo v.;
Formica; Ipec.; Sec.; Tab.; Ver. a.

Debility, exhaustion — .4/th.; 41/., Aloc; Amanita; Arg. n.;
Arn.; Ars.; Bism; Camph., Cinch.; Colch; Con.; Crot.
t.; Cupr, m.; Elat.; Ferr. m.; Iris; Jatropha; Keli .;
Mag c.; Nit. ac.; Phos.; Pod.; Rhus t.; Sec.; Sep.; Sul.
ac.; Tab., Tereb.; T.omb.; Upas; Ver. a.

Fainting — Aloc; Ars; Con.; Crot. t.; Merc; Nux m;
Pronia; Sars.; Tereb.; Ver. a.

Hemorrhoids — d/oc Llam.; Mun. ac.; Sul. See Hamor-
thoids.

Pains persist in abdomen — Aloc: Col., Crot. t; Diose;
Gamb., Grat.; Alerc. c, Mere. vit Rheum; Tromb ; Ver. a.

Palpitation, trembling in limbs — Ars.

Prolapsus ani— Aloe, Alum; Calc. ac.; Carbo v.; Ham.;
Ign., Merc. v.; Nit. ac.; Pod.; Sul; Tromb. See Rec-
tum.

Sleep, as soon as tenesmus ceases — Colch.; Sul.

Stool natural in evening — Aloc; Pod.

Sweat — Ant. t.; Ars.; Phos. ac.; Tab.; Ver. a.

Tenesmus (never-get-done feeling) -~ th.; Aloe; Ars.;
Bell.; Canth.; Caps.; Colch.; Gamb.; Ign.; Ipec.; Kali
bich.; Mag. c.; Merc. ¢.; Merc. d.; Merc. s.; Merc. v.;
Nux v.; Pod.; Rheum; Senna; Sil.; SuJ.; Tromb.

Thirst — Acet. ac.; Caps., Dulce

Vomiting — Arg. n.; Colch.; Cupr.; Ipec.; Iris; Nur ve;

er. a.

Weakness in abdomen and rectum - Pod.

MODALITIES — Aggravations: From _eatt:

Aloe; Alston.; Apis; Apoc.; Arg. n.; ‘Arse Bry; Canth.:
Cinch; Col; Crot. t.; Ferr. m7 Kah p.; Lye; Nux v.;
Phos.; Pod.; Rheum; Sanic.; Sul; Tanac.; Thuya;
Tromb.; Ver. a.

From motion — Atce; Apis; Bry.; Cinch.; Colch.; Crot. t.:
Nat. s.: Rheum; Ver. a.
960 ABDOMEN

From sundown to sunrise — Colch

In afternoon Bell, Cale. c.3 Cenck., Corn. 3 Lye.

In autumn — Cinch.; Colch.; Merc , Nux m.; Ver. a.

In daytime only -Hep.; Fetrol., Piloc.

In evening, night —./rs ; Bellis; Bov.; Cale. co; Cinch
Dule.; Ferr. m.; Iris; Merc.; Nat. nit.; Nux m.; Pod.
Puls., Poor; Rhus t.; Stront.; Sul.; Wyeth.

In morning, early Acet. ac.; Aloe, IAchthy., Iris; Lal, t.
Mcd.; Nat s.; Nit. ac.; Nuphar; Nux v.; Petrol.; Phos.
fod. 4 Psor., Rhus v.; Rumex; Sticta; Sul.; Thuya

romb.

In morning -- Aloe; Apis, Bov; Bry.; Cact.; Cistus; Crot. t.
Ferr. mj; Graph; Aali brook, Tal. t., Lye; Nux v.

In periodical attacks — Apis, Ais, Cinch., MKuphorb. cor.
Kali bun 3 Tris; Thuva

DUODENUM — Catarrhal inflammation (duodenitis) : Ars.
Aut: Berb v.; Cham; Chel.; Cinch.; Hydr , Kali bich
yc; Mere. diy Mere. s.; Nux v; Pod., Ricm. com.
Sang.

Ulceration -- Kali bich ; Symphyt.; Uran.

DYSENTERY --- 4lcon., Alue, Alston , Ambros.; Ant. t.3;. Apis
arg on., Arn., Ars., Asclep. t.; Bapt.,. Bell.; Cale. c.
Canth., Caps , Carb. ac.; Carbo v3; Chaparro; Cinch.
Colkch ; Collins,; Col.; Cuphea; Cupr. ars.; Dulc.; Emetine
Eing.; Eucal.; Ferr. p.; Gamb; Llam.; Hep; Ipec.; Irs
Kal bich , Kah chior. » Kah m., Kah p.; Lach , Leonuf.
Lept.; Lalit; yes Mag c.; Mere ¢., Mere di; Merc. 5.
Mere v., Nit acy; Nuviev; Opere.; Op; Phos ac.; Phos.
Plumb. ac.; Ped., Puls.; Rheum, Rhus t; Sec.; Stlph.
Sul; Tunuc, Till; Trewb.; NManth., Vaccin.; Ver. a.
Zine $s

Abuse of local treatment; diphtheritic form — Nit. ac

Chronic, intractable cases — Aloe; Arg. n.; Ars; Cinch.
Cop.; Dule., Hep. Merc. c.; Nit. ac; Nux v.; Phos. ae.
Pod.; Rhus ar.; Sul.

Hemorrhoidal form — Aloe, Collins.; Ham.

In old people -LBapt.

In plethoric, nervous, climacteric females -- 11) t.

With nausea from straining pain; little thirst — Ipec.

With long intervals between — Aru ; Cinch.

With Periodical recurrence in spring or early summer —

ali. bich.

With rheumatic pains all over -— Asclep. t.

With tearing down thighs — Rhus t.

Worse in autumn — Acon.; Colch.; Dule.; Ipec.; Mere. e3
Merc. v.; Sul. See Diarrheea.

ENTERITIS -- See Diarrhcea.

ENTERO-COLITIS --~- See Diarrhea.

GALL-BLADDER — BILIARY CALCULI (cholelithiasis) —
Aur; Bapt.: Berb 7.; Boldo; Bry.; Calc. an Card. m,;
Chel; Chionanth.; Cholest.; ‘Cinch; Diose.; Yel tauri;
Ferr 9; Gels: Hvdrs Jugl. ce: Lach.; Lept.: Myr.; Nux
ws Pichi; Pod.; Prel.; Tarax.

‘Biliary colic — Ats ; Atiup. sul.; Bell.; Serb. v.; Cale. c.,
Card m,; Cham; Chel; Chionanth.; Cinch. ; Col; Dig.;
Diosc.: Gels.; Hydr.; Ipec.; Lye; Morph. acet.; Nux v.:
Op.; Tereb. ‘
ABDOMEN 901

HZEMORRHOIDS—(piles) : Remedies in general: Abrot.;
Acon.; isc. gl; sc.; Aloe; Am. c.; Am. m; Apts;
adirs.; Aur. m., Bar. c.; Bell; Brom.; Cale f., Caps.,
Carbo an.; Carbo v., Card. m.; Caust.; Cham.; Chrom.
ac.; Collins.; Cop.; Diose.; Ferr Ri Fluor. ac.; Grat.;
Jiam., Hep.; Hydr ; Hyper.; Ign.; Kalé m.; Kali s.; Zach. ;
Lyc., Mag. m; Mtllef.; Mucuna; Mur. ac ; Negundo; Nit.
ac., Nux w.; Paeona; Pinus sylv; Pod.; Polyg., Puls.;
Radium; Ratanh ; Sab; Scrophul.; Sedum; Sep.; Sem-
perv. t., Sul; Sul. ac.; Thuya; Verbase.; Wyeth: Zing.

Bleeding — .t.0n , Aésc.; -lluc; Am. c.; Bell.; Cale. fl.; Caps ;
Chrom. ac; Collrs, Erig; Ferr. p.; Frecus; Ham.;
Hydr.; Hyper.; Kah mj; Lept.;: Lycop.; Millef.; Mur. ac.;
Nit ac; Nux v.; Operc; Phos., Sab.; Scrophul.; Sep.;
Sul; Thlaspi.

Bleeding, dark, venous blood — Aloc; J/am.; Hydr.; Kali
im; Sul,

Biind — 4isc.; Cale. f1; Collins.; Jyn., Mucuna; Nur v.;
Puls.; Sul.; Wyeth

Bluish, purplish —— Atsc gl: Aisc ; Aloe: Ars.; Caps.; Carbo
v.; Ham.; Tach.; Lye; Mur. ac.

Burning, smarting - “sc.; Aloe; Am. m.; Ars.; Cale. ¢.;
Caps.; Carbo an; Carbo v., Caust.; Fluor. ac.; Graph ;
Ign.; Mag. 1.3; Mucuna; Negundo; Nux v.; Psor.;
Ratanh.; Sul, Sul ac.

Inflamed --- .{con., -Esc ; Aloe; Bell ; Caust.; Cop.; Ferr. p.;
Mur. ac; Verbasc. Sce Sensitive. ‘

Itching — 4isc., Aloe, Caps ; Catho v.; Caust.; Cop.; Glon.;
Ham.; Mur. ac; Nit ac; Nux v; Petros.; Puls; Sul.

Mucous piles, continually oozing ~—Aloe; Am. m; Ant. c.;
Caps; Carbo v.; Catst.; Puls.; Sep.; Sul. ac.; Sul.

Protruding, grape-like, swollen --Aisc.; Aloe; Amc;
Caps.; Carbo v; Caust.; Colhns.; Diosc.; Graph.; Tam.;
Kali c.; Lach; Mur. ac.; Nux m; Nux v.; Ratanh.;
Scrophul.; Sep., Sul; Thuya.

Protruding when urinating — Bar. c.; Mur. ac.

Sensitive, exquisitely painful—- sc gl.; Zsc.; Aloe; Ars.;
Bell; Cact; Caps.; Carbo _v; Caust ; Cham.; Collins.;
Ferr. p.; Graph; Ham.; Hyper.; Kah ¢.; Lach; Lyc.;
Mag. m; Mur. ac; Nat m; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Plant.;
Puls ; Ratanh ; Scrophul., Sedum; Sep,; Sil.; Sul.; Thuya;
Verbasc.; Zing

White piles -— Carbo v.

CONCOMITANTS — With abdominal plethora — Zisc.; Aloe;
Collins.; Negundo; Nux v.; Sep.; Sul.

With backache — Asc. gl.: sc.; Bell.; Cale. 4.; Chrom.
ac.; Euonym.; Nur v; Sul. See Back.

With constipation — Esc. gl; #sc.; Am. m.; Anac.; Col-
hens. Euonym.; Kali s; Nux v.; Paraf.; Sil; Sul.; Ver-
asc

With debility—— Ars; Cinch.; Hydr.; Mur. ac,

With epistaxis — Carbo v.

With fissures, soreness of anus — Caps.; Cham.; Nét. ac.;
Ratanh.; Sedum.

With hypochondriasis— Hise. ; Grat.; Nux v.

With pelvic congestion — Aloe; Collins.; Hep.; Mucuna;
Pod.; Nux v.; Sep.; Sul. , , ,
902 ABDOMEN

With prolapsus ani et uteri — Pod.
With spasm of sphincter — Lach.; Sil.
With stitches in rectum during cough — Ign.; Kali c.; Lach.
With sudden development in marantic children — Mur. ac.
With tenesmus, anal and visceral, diarrhoea — Caps.
With tenesmus, constriction, lancinating pains — Nux v.
With tenesmus, dysenteric stools — Aloe; Sul.
With tenesmus, in pregnant females — Collins.
AGGRAVATIONS — After confinement: Aloe; Apis. Sce Female
Sexual System.
_<After stool for hours —Ign.; Ratanh.; Sul.
As rheumatic symptoms abate — Abrot.
During climacteric — Atsc.; Lach. See Female Sexual Sys-
tem.
During menses — Am. c.
During sitting — Graph.; Ign.; Thuya.
From alcoholic abuse, in sedentary persons- Zisc. gi.;
ux v.
From coughing, sneezing — Caust.; Kali c., Lach.
From talking, thinking of them Caust
From walking — Caust.; Sep.
AMELIORATIONS — From cold water: ioe; Nux v.; Ratanh.
From hot water -— 4rs., Mur. ac.
From lying down — Am. c.
From walking - - lgn
#HERNIA —.¥sc; Alum; Am. c.3 Aur.; Cale. c.; Cale. ps
Cocc., Col.; Iris fact.; Lye.; Mag. c.3 Nux v.; Ox. ac.3
Petrol.; Phos.; Picrot.; Sil; Sul. ac., Ver. a.; Zine.
Incarcerated -- Lob. infl; Millef ; Nux v.; Opf.; Plumb.
In children — Calc. c.; Lyc.; Nit. acy Nur v.; Sil; Sul.
Scrotal, congenital — Mag. m.
Strangulated— Acon ; Bell.; Lyc.; Nux v.; Op.; Plumb.
Umbilical —- Calc. ¢.; Coce.; Naw v.; Plumb. m.
INTESTINES — Intussusception, obstruction: Acon.;  Atrop.;
Bell.; Colch.; Col.; Merc. c., Nux wv., Ot; Plumbd.;
Thuya; Ve. a
Obstruction, post-operative — Acon; 4rn., Bell.; Mere. c.
Paralysis -— Eser. sal.; Plumb. ac.
Uleeration— Arg. n.; Cupr; Kali bich.; Merc. c.; Sul. ac;
Sul.; Uran.
JAUNDICE (icterus) -Acon.; Aloe; Am. m.; Arg; n.;_ As-
tacus; Ars; Aur mon. Avr.; Berb. wv; Bry.; Card.
m. Ceanoth.; Cham.; Chel.; Chionanth.; Cholest.; Cinch;
Corn. c.; Crot.; Dig.; Dolichos; Eup. perf.; Hep.; Hydr.;
Tod.; Jugl. c.; Kah bich.; Kali_¢; Kali picr.; Lach.;
Lept.; Lyc.; Mere ¢.; Merc. d.; Merc. s.; Myr; Nat. m.;
Nat. a Nat. s.; Nit. ac.; Nus v.; Ostrya; Phos.; Pier.
ac.; Plumb.; Pod., Ptel.; Rumex; Ruta; Sep.; Still,
Sul; Tarax.; Yucca; Veron.; Vipera.
Anemia; brain disease; pregnancy — Phos.
Chronic — Aur.; Chel., Con., Iod.; Phos.
Extension of catarrhal process— Am. m.; — Chel.;  Chio-
nanth.; Cinch.; Dig.; Bydr.; Lob. infl.; Merc.; Nux v.;
‘od. .
From mental emotion— Bry.; Cham.; Lach; Nux_ v.;
Vipera.
ABDOMEN 903

Infantile — Chain ; Lupul ; Mere. d.; Mere. s.; Myr.
Malignant — Acon ; Ars., Crot.; Lach.; Merc.; Phos.

HYPOCHONDRIA — Pain in left side: 4Jum , Am_m; Arg.
n.; Bapt. conf.; Carbo v.; Ceanoth.; Cim.; Con.; Dig.;
Grind.; Kali c; Lyc.; Nat. c.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Ox, ac.;
Parth.; Polymn., Puls.; Quercus; Scilla.; Sep.; Urt. See
Spleen.

Pain in right side -- Aisc.; Aloe, Aur; Bapt.; 3 Berb. v.;
Bolet.:; Brs.; Cale. c.; Carbo v.; Chel.; Cinch.; Con.;
Diosc., Gins.;_ Jacar ; Jatropha; Kaki ‘bich.; Kali. c.:
Limul.; Lye.; Mere.; Nat. s; Nux v.; OL j. as.; Phyt.;
Pod.; Ptel.; Ran. s: Sul; Wyeth. See Liver.

LIVER — Abscess: — Ats.; ; Belt; Boldo; Bry.; Chin. ars.; Hep.;
Lach.; Merc.; Phos; Raph.; Rhus t.; Si; Vipera.

Affections in general — Abies c.; Aise.: Aloe; Am. m.;
Ars, iod.; Astacus; Aur. m.; Aur. m. #.; Berb. v.; Bras-
sica; Bry.; ws Cale. c.3 Card. m.; Ceanoth.; Cham,; Chel.;
Chelone; Chenop ; Chioranth.; Cholest.; Conch. ; Cob. }
Con.; Corn ¢.; Croc.; Crot.; Diosc.; 3 Dolichoss Eup. perf.;
Euonym.; Ferr. picr., Hep.; Hydr.; lod. do: Mrs?
Kah c.; Kali iod.; Lach Lept.; Lyc.; di ns Mang.
S35 Marrub.; Merc. s., Mvr.; Nat. s.; Nux v.; Phos.;
Pichi; Plumb.; Pod ; Ptel., Puls.; Querc.; Raph.; Selen.;
Sep., Stellar; Sul.. Tarax , Thliaspi; Uran.; Vanad.;
Veron.

Atrophy, acute, yellow -Dig.; Phos.; Pod.

Atrophy (cirrhosis) -- Anes c, Apoc.; Ars; Ars. iod.;
Aur. m.; Aur. mur.; Cale. ars.; Card. m.; Canch.; Fel
tauri} Fluor. ac; Graph; Hydr.; Jod.; Kali_bich.; Kali
iod; Lyc.; Mere di: Mere: Nasturt. ag.; Nat. chlor.;
Nit. ac.; Nux v.: Phos.: Plumb ; Pod.; Senec.

Cancer—-Ars.; Chel.; Cholest., Con.; ; Hydr ; ; Lach ; Nit. ac.;
Phos,

CONGESTION (hyperemia, fullness, torpidity) — Abies GQ;
fEsc. gl; Als; Agar: Aloe; Ars.; Berb. aq.; Berb. v.;
Brassica; Brv., Card. m. Cham.; Chel.; Chin. 's.; ; Cinch. ;
Croc ; Eup. perf.; Euonym.; Dig.; Hep. Hyar.; I ris; Kali
bich.; Kal: m.; Lach.; Lept., Lye., Mag. ms Merc. d.;
Merc.; Mucuna; Wat. s.; 2} Nit. ac; Nur v.; Phos.; Picr.
ac; Pod.; Ptel.; Senna; Sep., Stellar.; Still.; Sxi.;
Tromb.; Vipera.

Congestion, chronic — Am. m.; Chel.; Cholest.; Ciach.;
Con.; Hep ; “Hydr.; Iod.; Kal c.; Lept.i Lyc.; ‘Mag. m.:
Mea d.; ‘Merc. 5.5 Nat. s.; Pod.; Selen.; Sep.; Sul.;

Enlargement (hypertrophy) — isc;  Agar.; Ars.; Cale.
ars.; Card. m.; Chel; Chin. ars.; hionanth.; Cinch. ;
Col.; Con.; Dsg.; Ferr. ars.; Ferr. iod.; Glycerin; Graph. ;
lod ; Kali c.; Mag. m.; Mang. acs Merc, d.; Merc.; at.
3.5 Nux v. Pod.; Sec; ; Selen.; Stellar.; Taraz.; Vipera;
Zinc. See Congestion.

Enlargement in drunkards -- Absinth.; Am. m.; Ars.; Fluor.
ac.; Lach., Nux v.; Sul.

Fatty degeneration — Aur m.; Chel; Kali bich.; Phlorid.;
Phos., Pier. ac.; Vanad.
904 ABDOMEN

Induration — Abies c; Ars; Aur.; Cinch.; Con, Fluor. ac.;
Graph., Lye.; Mag. m.; Merc.; Nux v.; Sil, Taras.;
Zinc. See Cirrhosis.

Inflammation (perihepatitis, hepatitis) — Acon; Act. sp.

Ars.; Aur.; Bry., Cham.; Chel., Corn. c.; Hep.; IJod.
Kali iod.; Lach., Mere. d.; Merc., Phos., Psor.; Sil.
Stellar.; Sul

Pain (bepatalgia) —Acon; 4isc.; Aloc; Am cc; Am m;
Ars.; Bell; Berb v.; Boldo; Bry., Cale. s.; Carbo ve
Card, m; Ceanoth., Chel ; Cheione; Cholest.; Cinch ;
Cob.; Con.; Crot: Du.; ; Diose.; ; Jatropha; Kah cy Tach.;

Lept., Lyc, Mag m., Merc.; Merc. d; Myr, Nur ¢.
Ol. 3 as.; Parth.; Pod , Ptel ; Ran. b; Ran. s.; Sang.
Selen.; Sep.; Stann.; Sul ; Tarax ; ; Yueca.

Pain, pressive - ~ Anac.; Carbo an; ; Cinch; Kali c.; Lyc;
Mag m.; Merc.

Pain, stitching-- 4con . Agar.; Am. m.; Bell.: Benz. ac:
Berb, uv, Bry.; Carbo v.; Chel, Cinch.; Diosce.; Hep.;
Jugl. ¢.; Kah bich.; Walt. c.: Mere ce; Merc; Nat in;
Nat. s.; Nur v.. Ox ac., Ran. b; Sep; Stellar.; Sul.

Pain, relieved lying on painful side* Bry ; Ptel.: Sep

Pain, relieved rubbing and shaking liver region — Pod.

Pains worse lying on left side — liry.; Nat s.; Ptel

Pain worse lying on right side —- Chel.; Diose ; ; Mag. m.;

Mere.
Pigmentary degeneration —- Arg. n.
Sensitiveness to touch, pressure —- Zsc.; Aloe, Bapt.;

Bell., Berb v., Bry , Cale. c.3 Card om: Chaparro, Chel:
Chelone; Chionanth. ; Cinch. ; Dig., Eup. perf.; Fluor. ac 5
Graph.; Hydr ; Tad) Teas Kali e. each: Lept.; Ly.
Mag. m; Merc. d., Mere.; Nat. st Nux wv; Vyetanth
Phos ; Pod., Ptel., Ran. o., Sanic.; Senna; Sep, Stellar.;
Sul. ‘Tarax : Zine
Syphilis — Aur mur.; Kali iod; Merc. i. rr. See Male
Sexual System.
Waxy liver -Cale c.. Kah tod.; Phos; Sil.
PANCREAS — Affections: .A15.; ivop ; Bar. m; Bell.: Cale.
ais.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.. Jod.. Iris; Jabor ; Kali iod ;
Merc; Nux vj; Parcieat: Fhos., Piloc ; Puls.
PERINEUM. Ais. Asaf.: Tell; Bov.; Can. ind; Carbo v.;
Chimaph.* Cycl.; Wali bich.; Lye.; Melastoma; Merc ;
OL an., Paeonia, Sanir., Santal, Selen.; Tellur.
PERITONITIS- -.feon., pis, Arn; Ars; Atrop ; Bell.;
Brv., Cale. ¢ 3 Canth.; Carbo v.; Cham ; Cim.; Cinch ;
Col; Crot., Ferr p.; Hep; Ipec.; Kali chlor. 3 Lach. ;
Lye.: Mere c.. Mere. ad: Mere.; Rhus 1.; Sang. n,
Stnap. n., Solan. n.; Sul, Tereb.; Ver. v.; Wyeth.
Chronic — ‘Apis: Lyc., Merc. di: Sul.
Pseudo-peritonitis, hysterical Rell.; Col; Ver. a.
Tubercular -- -lbrot., Ars.: Are. iod.; Cale. c.; Carbo v.;
Catch, Tod : Psor.; Sul: Tur
PERITYPHI ITIS -—- Ars., Bell ; Iris men.; Iris ten ; Lach.;
Men c.: Rhus t.

SPLEEN — Atrophy, induration; —Agu., Fucal.; Jod.; Phos.
Diseases, epidemic, in domestic animais - - Anthrac,
Enlargement — Agar.; Agn.: Aran.; Ars. 5 Ars. 10d.; Aur.

mur ; Bellis, Cale. ars’, Caps.; Card. my Ceanoth.; Ced.:

>
‘>
,
904 ABDOMEN

Induration — Abies c; Ars; Aur.; Cinch.; Con, Fluor. ac.;
Graph., Lye.; Mag. m.; Merc.; Nux v.; Sil, Taras.;
Zinc. See Cirrhosis.

Inflammation (perihepatitis, hepatitis) — Acon; Act. sp.

Ars.; Aur.; Bry., Cham.; Chel., Corn. c.; Hep.; IJod.
Kali iod.; Lach., Mere. d.; Merc., Phos., Psor.; Sil.
Stellar.; Sul

Pain (bepatalgia) —Acon; 4isc.; Aloc; Am cc; Am m;
Ars.; Bell; Berb v.; Boldo; Bry., Cale. s.; Carbo ve
Card, m; Ceanoth., Chel ; Cheione; Cholest.; Cinch ;
Cob.; Con.; Crot: Du.; ; Diose.; ; Jatropha; Kah cy Tach.;

Lept., Lyc, Mag m., Merc.; Merc. d; Myr, Nur ¢.
Ol. 3 as.; Parth.; Pod , Ptel ; Ran. b; Ran. s.; Sang.
Selen.; Sep.; Stann.; Sul ; Tarax ; ; Yueca.

Pain, pressive - ~ Anac.; Carbo an; ; Cinch; Kali c.; Lyc;
Mag m.; Merc.

Pain, stitching-- 4con . Agar.; Am. m.; Bell.: Benz. ac:
Berb, uv, Bry.; Carbo v.; Chel, Cinch.; Diosce.; Hep.;
Jugl. ¢.; Kah bich.; Walt. c.: Mere ce; Merc; Nat in;
Nat. s.; Nur v.. Ox ac., Ran. b; Sep; Stellar.; Sul.

Pain, relieved lying on painful side* Bry ; Ptel.: Sep

Pain, relieved rubbing and shaking liver region — Pod.

Pains worse lying on left side — liry.; Nat s.; Ptel

Pain worse lying on right side —- Chel.; Diose ; ; Mag. m.;

Mere.
Pigmentary degeneration —- Arg. n.
Sensitiveness to touch, pressure —- Zsc.; Aloe, Bapt.;

Bell., Berb v., Bry , Cale. c.3 Card om: Chaparro, Chel:
Chelone; Chionanth. ; Cinch. ; Dig., Eup. perf.; Fluor. ac 5
Graph.; Hydr ; Tad) Teas Kali e. each: Lept.; Ly.
Mag. m; Merc. d., Mere.; Nat. st Nux wv; Vyetanth
Phos ; Pod., Ptel., Ran. o., Sanic.; Senna; Sep, Stellar.;
Sul. ‘Tarax : Zine
Syphilis — Aur mur.; Kali iod; Merc. i. rr. See Male
Sexual System.
Waxy liver -Cale c.. Kah tod.; Phos; Sil.
PANCREAS — Affections: .A15.; ivop ; Bar. m; Bell.: Cale.
ais.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.. Jod.. Iris; Jabor ; Kali iod ;
Merc; Nux vj; Parcieat: Fhos., Piloc ; Puls.
PERINEUM. Ais. Asaf.: Tell; Bov.; Can. ind; Carbo v.;
Chimaph.* Cycl.; Wali bich.; Lye.; Melastoma; Merc ;
OL an., Paeonia, Sanir., Santal, Selen.; Tellur.
PERITONITIS- -.feon., pis, Arn; Ars; Atrop ; Bell.;
Brv., Cale. ¢ 3 Canth.; Carbo v.; Cham ; Cim.; Cinch ;
Col; Crot., Ferr p.; Hep; Ipec.; Kali chlor. 3 Lach. ;
Lye.: Mere c.. Mere. ad: Mere.; Rhus 1.; Sang. n,
Stnap. n., Solan. n.; Sul, Tereb.; Ver. v.; Wyeth.
Chronic — ‘Apis: Lyc., Merc. di: Sul.
Pseudo-peritonitis, hysterical Rell.; Col; Ver. a.
Tubercular -- -lbrot., Ars.: Are. iod.; Cale. c.; Carbo v.;
Catch, Tod : Psor.; Sul: Tur
PERITYPHI ITIS -—- Ars., Bell ; Iris men.; Iris ten ; Lach.;
Men c.: Rhus t.

SPLEEN — Atrophy, induration; —Agu., Fucal.; Jod.; Phos.
Diseases, epidemic, in domestic animais - - Anthrac,
Enlargement — Agar.; Agn.: Aran.; Ars. 5 Ars. 10d.; Aur.

mur ; Bellis, Cale. ars’, Caps.; Card. my Ceanoth.; Ced.:

>
‘>
,
ABDOMEN 905

Chonanth ; Chin os, Canch., Ferr. ac.; Ferr. ars.; Ferr.
1od.; Grind.; Hehanth., lod.; Mag. m.; Malar.; Mere. i.
t; Nat. m, Pe:sicaria; Phos, ac, Phos; Polym; Querc.;
Sucein ; Sul ac.3 Urt.

Inflammation (splenitis) — Aran.; Arn.; lod.;  Ceanoth.;
Chin. s.; Cinch.; Ferr. p.; Iod.; Plumb. iod.; Polym;
Sucein.; Ver. v. See Enlargement.

Pain — Agar., Agr; Am. m, Arn; Ars.; Ars, m3; Caps.;
Ceanoth., Cm; Cinch.; Cobalt.; Diosc., Grind.; Hekanth.;
Helon., Vex, lod; Kah tod., Lob. cer.; Nat. m., Parth.;
Plumb ; Polym. noed., VPtel, Querc.; Ran. b.; Rhus t.;
Scilia; Sal.; Urt

Pain, stitching --Agar; Alston: Am. m; Belhs; Beh. v;
Carbo v.; Ceanoth., Chel, Cinch., Con,, Kali bich., Nat.
m.i Ran. b., Rhod., Sul; Tarax., Ther.

TYPHLITIS, APPENDICITIS-- Acon . Arn.: Ars.,  Bapt;
Bell; Bry., Canth.; Card. m.; Colch; Collins.; Col ;
Crot ; Diose.; Echin., Ferr. p.; Gins.; Hep.; Iris ten.;
Kali om; Lach.; Lye; Merc c.; Mere; Nux vi; Op.;
Plumb.; Rhamnus; Rhus t, Sil; Sul; Ver. a.

UMBILICUS, Navel — Bleeding f:om, in newborn: Abrot.;
aic. p.

Bubbling sensation — Berb. v.

Burning -— Acon.; Ars

Eczema ~-- Merc pi. rub

Pain, soreness about — .Fsc.: Aloc; Anac.; Renz. ac.; Bov.;
Bry.; Cale p, Carbo v3; Caust.; Cham.; Chel ; Chionanth ;
Cina, Coece; Col., Con; Crot. t.; Dulce; Euonym.;
Gamb.; Granat.; Hyper 5 Tpec.; Lept; Lyc; Nur m.;
Nux v.; Oleand; Ox. ac.; Paraf.; Phos. ac: Plat.;
Plumb, m.; Ran. sc; Raph.; Rheum; Senec.; Sil.; Spsg.;
Stann., Sul.; Texus; Verbase ; Ver. a.; Zine. m.

Retraction -—— Calc p; Plumb.; Pod.

Uleer, above —- Ars

Urine, oozing from- — Ilyos

WORMS -- Remedies in general: .2sc ; .dmivos.; Apoe. andr.;
Ars.; Bapt.; Bell; Calad.; Cale. ¢., Cie; Cina; Cupr.
ac.: Cupr oxy.; Ferr. mur., Ferr. s.; Pilar m.; Granat.
Ign.; Indigo; Ipec.; Kali mj; Kuosso; Lyc.; Merc. c.
Naph., Nat. p.; Passifl.; Puls.; Quass.; Ratanh,; Sabad.
Santon.; Sil: Spig., Stann.; Sul.; Sumb.; Tereb.; Teucr.
Ver. a.; Viola od. .

Ascaris Jumbricoides — 4bret.: Aisc: Ant. c; Cale. c.,
Cma; Ferr, m.; Granat.; Helmintoch ; Ten. Indigo; Kali
chlor.; Lyc.; Merc. d.; Naph.; Pin. sylv.; Sabad.; San-
ton.; Spig.; Stann.; Sul.; Tereb.; Teucr.; Urt.

Oxyuris vermicularis -- Ars; Bapt.; Cina; Ign.; Indigo
Lyc.; Merc. d.; Merc. s.; Nat. p.; Ratanh.; Santon.; Sil.
Sinap. n.; Spig.; Teucr.; Val.

Taenia ~—Argem. mex.; Carbo v.; Cucur.; Cupr. ac.; Cupr.
oxy.; Filiz m.; Gronat.; Graph.; Kali tod.; Kamala;
Kuosso; Mag. m.; Merc.; Pelletierine; Phos,; Puls.
Sabad.; Sab.; Santon.; Stann.; Sul.; Val.

Trichine —- Ars, Bapt.; Cupr. oxy.
URINARY SYSTEM

AFFECTIONS, in old men --- Alfal.; Aloe; Cop.; Hep ;
Phos.; Pop. tr.; Staph.; Sul. See Weakness.

BLADDER —Atony: .frs, Dulc.; Hep.; Op.; Plumb.; Rhus
ar.; Rhus t.; Scilla. See Paralysis.

Cystocele — Staph.

ENURESIS — Incontinence: Remedies in general: Acon.; .\gat .
Apis; .trg. on; Arn.; Ars; Atrop; Bell, Bens ac.
Cale c; Canth.; Caust.; Cie: Cim.; Cima, Con.; Duk.,
Equs ; Eryng aq.; Eup perf.; Eup. purp ; Ferr. mi
Fert. p., Gels.; Uydrang.; Hyos.; Kals br; Kali on.
Kah p.. Nreos., Lanar.; Lupul.; Lyc.; Mag p.; Med
Nua v.: Op.; Petrol.; Phos. ac.; Physal.; Plant ; Puls.
Rhus ar., Rhus t.; Sabal; Sanic.; Santon.; Sec.; Senega;
Sep.; Sil.; Stram.; Sul; Tereb.; Thyr.; Thuya; Tritic ;
Uran.; Verbasc., Zinc. m. See Flow.

TYPE — OCCURRENCE — Diurnal: Arg. n; Bell., Caust,
Equis.; Ferr. m.; Ferr. p.; See.

In old people —- Aloe; .lry on., Reng ac.; Canth.; Equis.;
Gels ; Nit. ac.; Rhus ar, Sec.; Senega; Turnera.

Nocturnal - Am. c; .\rg n.; Arn.; Ars.; Bell., Benz. ac.;
Cale oc; Caus'., Cima: Coca; quis, Kup. purp.; Fert.
iod.; Fer. p.; Gels.; Hep ; Ign.; Kali br.; Med., Physal.:
Plant.; Puls.; Quass.; Rhus ar.; Santon.; Sec.; Sil; Sul,
Thuya; TAy)., Uran.; Verbase.

CAUSE — Catheterization, after: Mag. p.

Digestive disturbances ~ Benz. ac.; Nux v.; Puis.

During first sleep — Caust.; Kreos.; Sef.

During full moon; intractable cases; eczematous history —

Sor,

Hysteria - -Ign.; Val. m. .

Weak or paretic sphincter vesicae —-Apoc: Bell.; Caust.;
Con., Fer. p33 Gels., Nux v.; Rhus ac.; Sabul; Sec:
Stryvci. See Paralysis.
orms © Cina; Santon.; Sul.

FEELING — As if ball or plug, in bladder — Anac.; Kali b: ;
Lach.; Santal

Feeling, as if chill rising from, to back — Sars.

Feeling, as if distended — Anthem.; dpoc.; Ars.; Berb v.;
Con., Conv.; Dig.; Equiy; Eup. perf.; Gels; Jlyos.,
Mel cum sale.; Parca; Puls.; Rurai Santon: Sars., Sep.,
Staph.; Sud; Uva.

Hemorrhage ~ tag pers: Cact.; Catbo v.: Erig., Jus.
Millef Vit ac., Rhus ar; Sec.; Thlaspr. See Haematuria

Hypertrophy, concentric — Pichi.

INFLAMMATION (cystitis) — Acute: Acon.; Ant. t.; Apis;
Ars; Aspar.; Bell.: Benz. ac; Berb. v.; Camph.; Camphor.
ac.; Can. s.; Canth., Caps.; Chimaph.; Con.; Cop.; Cub:
Dig: Duh, Elat.; equs.; Erig.; Eucal.; Eup purp.,
Ferr ac. Ferr. p; Gels.; Helleb.; Tydrang.; Hyos.;
Lach.: Acie oc. Methyl b1; Nit. ac, Nux vi; Ol sant,

URINARY SYSTEM 907

Pareira; Petros.; Pichi; Pip. m.; Pop. tr.; Prun. ep.;
Puls,, Sabal; Sub.; Sars.; Saurur.; Sep.; Stigm.; Sul;
Tereb ; Tritic.; Uva; Vesic.

From abuse of cantharis — Apis; Camph.

From gonorrhoea -~ Lell.; Benz. ac.; Canth.; Cop.; Cub.;
Merc c.; Puls; Sabal.

From operations, and in pregnancy — Pop. tr.

With fever, strangury -- Acon., Bell.; Canth.; Gels.; Hy-
drang.; Stigm.

Inflammation, chronic -— 4rs.; Bals. per.; Baros.; Bens. ac.;
Berb v.; Buchu, Can. s; Canth.; Carbo v.; Caust.;
Chimaph.; Coceus: Col, Cop.; Cub.; Dule.; Epig.; Eryng.
au.; Tucal.; Eup. purp ; Fabiana; Grind.; Hydr.; Tod;
Junip.; Kava; Jith. «3; Lye.; Merc. c.; Nit. ac.; Pareira,
Pichi; Pip. m.; Pop. tr, Prun. sp.; Puis.; Rhus ar.;
Sabal, Santon; Senega, Sep.; Silpn.; Stigm., Tercb,
Thiaspi; Thuya; Tritic ; Tub.; Uva, Vesic.; Zea.

IRRITABILITY — Bladder and neck: Acon.;  Alfal.; Aloe;
Ams, Baros.; Bell., Benz. ac., Berb. v.; Buchu; Cale. c.;
Camph.; Can. s+ Conth.; Caps.; Caust., Cop.; Cub.; Dig.;
Equis ; YUrig.; Ervng. aq.; 2p. purp.; Ferr. ac.; Ferr.
m; Ferr. fe Guaiac ; Hyos.; Kal br.; Mitchella; Nit.
mur, ac.; Nux v, Oxytr.; Parewra; Petros.; Prun. sp.;
Rhus ar.; Sabal, Senec., Senega; Sep.; Staph., Stigm ;
Tereb., Thuya; Trttic.; Vesic

Irritability in women -— Berb. v_, Cop., Cub.; Lup. purp.;
Gels.; Kreos.; Senec.; Sep.; Staph.

PAIN —A4Acon., Ambra; Bell; Berb. v.; Camph ; Canth.; Carbo
v.; Caul.; Caust., Coccus; Cop., Dig.; Dulc.; Equis.; Erig.;
Eryng,; Ign.; Lach.; Lyc.; Naph.; Nit. ac.; Op.; Pareira. ;
Pichi; Piloc ; Pop. tr., Prun. sp.; Pulex; Puls.; Rhus ar.;
Staph.; Stigm.; Strych.; Tereb.; Thuya; Tritic.; Uran. n.;
Uva, See Cystrtis.

TYPE — Aching — #erb, v.; Conv.; Equis.; Eup. puscp.; Pop.
tr.; Sep.; Sticta; Tereb.

Burning— Acon ; Ars; Baros.; Berh. vu; Camoh.; Canth.;
Cop.; Ferr. facr.; Staph.; Tereb.; Thuya; Uva.

Cramp-like, constricting — Reil.; Berb. v.; Cact.; Can. §;
Canth ; Caps.; Lyc.; Op.; Polyg.; Prun. sp; Sars.; Teréb.

Cutting, stitching — con.; Ath.; Bell.; Berb. v.; Canth.;
Coceus; Con.; Lye.; Tereb.

Neuralgic, spasmodic — Bell.; Berb. v.; Canth.; Caul.; Lith.
c.; Lyc., Mere.¢.; Parewa; Puls.; Staph.; Uva.

Pressing — Aloe; Brachygl.; Cact.; Carbo v.; Coccus; Con.;

Dig.; Dulce; Equis.; Lach; Lil. t.; Lye; Met cum sale;
For. tr.; Pulex; Puls.; Ruta; Sep.; Staph.; Sul.; Tereb.;
Verbasce.

Radiating to spermatic cord— Clem.; Lith. c.; Puls.; Spong.

MODALITIES -- AGGRAVATIONS: After urination: — Canth.;
Caust.; Epig.; Equis.; Pichi; Ruta. See Urination,

From drinking water — Canth.

From lithotomy — Staph.

From walking — Con.; Prun. sp.

AMELIORATIONS — From rest: — Con.

From urination — Coccus,
From walking -—1gn.; Tereb.
908 URINARY SYSTEM

PARALYSIS — Alum: Apoc; 4rn., Ars.; Aur.; Cact.; Camph.;
Can. ind.; Canth.; Caust.; Con.; Dig.; Dule.; Eucal.;
Equs.; Ferr m, Fert. p.; Gels.; Helleb.; Hyos.; Lach.;
Morph.; Nur v.; Op.; Plumb, m.; Puls.; Sec.; Strych.;

Paralysis of sphincter — Ars.; Bell.; Caust.; Cic.;  Dulc ;
Hvos.; Tgn.; Tach.; Taur.; Nat. m; Sul.; Thuya; Zinc,

POLYPI — Papilloma: — Ars; Calc. c ; Thuya.

Prolapsus -— Ilyos ; Pyrus; Staph

Sensitiveness, tenderness of vesical region--- .4con.; Bell.;
Berb v.; Canth ; Coccus; Equis., Eup. purp.; Mere c.;
Sticta: Tercb. See Pain.

Spasm (cystospasm) -- Canth ; Gels ; [7vos.; Nux v; Puls
Spasm following operations on orifice —- Bell , Col ; 1xper
TENESMUS VESICAE--- Acon., 4pis, Arn; Bell., TRenz ac ¢
Camph ; Can s.;_ Canth.; Caps.; Cham.; Chimaph ; Cuoc-
cus, Col, Cop.; Cub; Epig.; Equs ; Eryng ; Hup. purp.;
err p.; Hydrang ; Hyos.; Ipec.; Lil. t.; Lith. ¢3 Lye;
Med: Mere. c.; Nit. ac.; Nux ve: Ontscus, Prcht, Plumb
m.; Pop. tr.; Prun. sp.; Puls.; Rham. c.; Rhus t.; Sabal;

Sars.: Senec.; Staph.; Stigm ; Tereb.; Vesic.

WEAKNESS — Inability to retain urine, dribbing - Aloe;
Ananth.; 4poc, Bell ; Bens ac; Brachygl.; Camph.; Car
ind ; Caust., Clem; Con.; Equts.; Erig.; Buphras ; Gels ;
Hlep ; Nux v., Peuol.; Pier. ac.; Pulex; Puls.; Rhus ar.;
Santon ; Sabal; Sars ; Selen.; Solan. lyc.; Staph ; Terch.;
Thymol; Tribul ; Uva, Terbas: , Vesic , Xerophyl,

Weakness in old men -- Alum. Bens ac, Carb ac; Clem;
Con.; Pop tr: Sclen.; Staph Sce Paralysis.

KIDNEYS — Abscess (perinephi:tic): — Arn., Bell; Hep,
Merc.; Ver v

CALCULI — GRAVEL (nephrolithiasis) — COLIC: -—Arg 1n.;
Bell; Benz. ac.; Rerb. v.; Buchu; Cale e¢.; Cale. ren.;
Caxth ; Cham.: Chin, s.: Coccus; Col.; Urose.; Epig.; Erig ;
Eryng.; Eno, purp.; [tedeoma; Hep ; Hydrang.; Ipomeea;
Ive., Med; Nit. ac., Nux v., Ocimum, Oniscus; Op;
Oxyden.; Pareira, Puchi; Piperez.; Polygou.; Sars.; Sep.;
Sohd , Stigm., Tab.; Thlasm; Urt.; Uva; Vesic.

Colic, worse left side -Berb. v., Canth ; Tab.

Colic, worse right side -— ‘Lyc., Nux v ; Ocimum; Sars.

Inter-paroxysimal treatment -- Berb. v.; Calc. c., Chin. s;
Hydrang ; Lye, Nua v.; Sep; Urt.

CONGESTION, acute —- Acon.; Aig. n.; Arn: Aur.; Bell.;
Benz. ac.; Berb. v., Bry.; Camph.; Canth.; Dig.; Dulc.;
Eucal.; Eryng. aq.; Helieb.; Helon ; Ulydroc. ac.; Jump ;
hatt bich * Mere c.; Ol. sant. Op.; Rhus t.; Senec.; Solid.:
Tereb.; Ver. v. pee Nephritts.

Congestion, chronic (passive, from heart or kidney disease)
—- Acon ; Arn.; Bell.; Caffeine; Conv.; Dig.; Glon.; Phos.;
Stroph + Strych.;’Ver. v. See Heart.

DEGENERATION, acute, amyloid, fatty— Apis; .irs.; | Aur.
mur., Bell; Cic.; Cut (ac; Ferr. mur.; Hydroe. ac.;
Kalki wd., Lyc.; Nit. ac; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Rhus t.; Tereb.
See Nephritis.

FLOATING KIDNEY (nephroptosis) reflex symptoms:— Bell ,
Cham. ; Col.; Gels.; Ign.; Lach,; Puls.; Strych. ars.; Sul.;

ine.
URINARY SYSIEM 909

INFLAMMATION (nephritis) — Bright’s disease:

ACUTE AND SUBACUTE PARENCHYMATOUS NEPHRITIS
-——Acon.; Ant. t.; Apis, Apoc.; Ars.; Aur. mur.; Bell.;
Beib. v., Can. s, Canth., Chel; cAimaph , Chin. s.; Colch.;
Conv, Cupr. ars., Dig., Dule.; Eucal.; Eup. perf.; Ferr.
tod., Fuschma. Glon., fHelleb., Helon.; Hep, Lydtrocot. ;
Irid.; Jump.; Kali o.ch.; Kali chlor., Kah citr.; Kal.;
Kochs lymph, Lach; Merc. c., Methyl. bl; Nit. ae;
Phos. ac.; fhos., Pichi; Pier. ac.; Plumb. ac.; Polygon ;
Khus t.; Sab, Samb,, Sandal, Scilla; Sec; Senec ;
Serum ang.; Tereb; Ver. a., ler. uv, Zing.

CAUSE — From cold, or wet exposure - dcon., Ant. t.; Apis;
Canth.; Dulc.; Rhus t.; Tereb.

From influenza — Eucal.

From malaria — cirs., Kup. perf.; Tereb.

From pregnancy --- Ap, Apoc , Cupr. ars, Kal; Mere c.,
Sab. See Female Sexual System.

From scariet fever, diphtheria —-Acon ; Apis; Ars.; Bell.;
Canth., Conv.; Cop; Dig.; Fer. 10d.; Helleb., Hep.; Kal.;
Lach.; Merc. c., Methyl. bil; Nat s.; Nit. sp. d.; Rhus t.;
Sec; Tereb.

From suppurations --- Apoc.; Chin »s.; Hep., Phos.: Plumb.
c.; Stl; Terev.

CONCOMITANTS — Dropsy: — Acon.; Adon. v.; Ant. t.; Apis;
Apoc. cirs., .\ur, mur., Canth.; Coleh.; Cop ; Dig., Helleb.;
Mere. c; Piloc.; Samb., Scilla, Senec ; Tereb. See Dropsy
(Generalities).

Heart failure -- Adon y., Ars.; Caffeine; Dig.; Glon.; Spart.;
Stroph.; Ver v

Pneumonia — Chel.; Phos.

Uraemic symptoms - - 4th.; Am. c., Ars.; Bell.; Can, ind;
Carb. ac., Cic., Cupr. ars., Helleb.; Hyos.; worph., Op.;
Piloc.; Stram.; Urea.

ACUTE, SUPPURATIVE. NEPHRITIS— Acon.; Arn.; _ Bell.;
Camph.; Calc. s.; Can. s., Canth.; Chin. s., Eucal.; Hekla;
Hep., Kali n.; Merc. ¢c.; Naph; Sil; Ver. v.

CHRONIC, INTERSTITIAL NEPHRITIS — Apis; Ars.; Aur.
mur., Aur. m. n.; Cact; Chin s.; Colch.; Conv.; Dig.;
Ferr. m.; err. mur., Glon., lod.; Kali c.; Kals tod.;
Koch's lymph; Lith, ac.; Lith. benz.; Lith. c; Merc. c.;
Mere. d.; Nat. 10d., Nit. ac., Nux v.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Phos.;
Plumb. c.; Plumb, .0d.; Plumb. m.; Sang.; Zinc. picr. See
Arteriosclerosis (Circulatory System).

CHRONIC, PARENCHYMATOUS NEPHRITIS— Am. benz;
Api; Ars.; Aur. mur, Aur. m. n.; Benz. ac.; Berb. v.;
Brachygl.; Calc. ars; Calc. p; Can. ind.; Canth.; Chin.
ars.; Conv.; Dig.; Eup. purp.; Euonym.; Ferr. ars.; Ferr.
cit.; Ferr, mur., Ferr. p.; Form. ac.; Glon.; Helon.;
Hydroc. ac.; Junip.; Kali ars.; Kati chlor.; Kali cit.; Kal
iod., Kah m.; Kal.; Koch’s lymph.; Lonic.; Lyc.; Merc. ¢.;
Nat. chlor.; Nit. ac.; Nux_v., Oniscus; Phos. ac.; Phos.;
Picr. ac.; Prloc.; Plumb.; Senec.; Solana; Solid.; Spart.;
Tereb.; Urea; Vesic. :

SYMPTOMS — URAEMIA: In general: — Am. c.; Apis; Apoc.;
Ars.; Asclep. c.; Bell.; Can, ind.; Canth.; Carb. ae; Cie.;
910 URINARY SYSTEM

Cupr. ac.; Cupr. ars.; * Gon: , Helleb : droc. ac ; Hyos.;:
Kali br.; Morph.; Op; hos.; Picr. ac., Bios 3 Quebracho,
Serum ang.; Stram.; beee "Urea: Urt.; Ver. v.

Coma — 4m. c.; Bell; Bry.; Carb. ac., Cupr. ars.; Helleb.:
Merc. c.; Morph.; ‘Op.; Ver. v.

Convulsions - Bell; Carb. ac; Chloral.; Cic.; Cupr. ac.,
Cupr. ars, Glon.; Hydroc. ac., Mere. ¢; Op; Piloc;
Plumb.; Ver v. See Convulsions (Nervous System).

Headache Arn.; Can. ind.; Carb, ac; Cupr. ars.; Glon.;
Hyper.; Sang, Zine. picr. See Head

Vomiting = .!+s_. Tod.; Kreos.; Nux v. See Stomach.

PAIN_IN RENAL REGION — Burnin :— Acon., <Ars.;  <Aur.;
Berbh «, But. ac; Canth. ; Hedeoma; Helon., Kali 1od.,
Jach., Lye ; Merc. c.; Phos , Sab.: Sul., Tereb. Sec Back.

Cutting, digging, boring —- Arn: Berb. v.; Canth ; Eup
purp.; Ipec; Lye., Rhus t.; Tereb.

Drawing, tensive — Berb. v.; Can. s.; Canth.; Chel.; Coccus;
Colch.; Dule.; Lach.; Lye. , Nit. ac.; Solid ; Tereb.

Neuralgic, radiating (nephralgia), tearing, lancinating —
Arg. n., Arn.; Bell., Berb. v.; Cale. ¢c.; Canth., Chel.;
Chin. s.; Coccinel; Coccus; Diosc.; FEryng. aq.; Ferr. mur ,
Hedeoma; Hydrang., Lach. ; ; Lyc.; Kali iod.; Nit. ac.; Nur

> Ocimum, Oxytr ; Pareia; Phos.; Sab.; Sars , Scrophul :
Sohd.s Tab., Tereb ; Thiasp.; Vespa. See Nephrolithasis.

Pressing — Arg. n., ‘Arn , Aur. mur; Serb. v., Canth., Chin.
s.; Lyc., Nit. ac.; Ocimum ; Petrol ; Phos. ac, Sep,
Tereb., ‘Uva; Xerophyl.

Stitching — Rerh 7 + Canth » Colch.; Kali c.: Pareira.

Throbbing -— .\ct sp; Berb. 7., Chimaph.; Med.; Sab.

Weariness, aching, lameness — Acon. Alum ; Am. br.; Apis;
slrg. ns Bens ac.; Berb. v.; Can, ind.; Canth., Chel ;
Cina; Conv. 3 Cop.; Eup. purp.; Hedeoma; Helon., “Hy:
drang.: Junip.; Kali bich.; Lye; Nat. chlor.; > Nur v; Ol
sant , Phyt.: Prer, ac; Pin. sylv.; Sab.; Sep ; Sohid.; Stel-
lar.; Tereb.; Ustil.; Uva; Vespa. See Back.

MODALITIES — AGGRAVATIONS: At 2 P. M.: Kal

From lifting, sudden effort — Calc. p.

From lying down — Conv.

From motion — Berb. 7; Canth.; Chel.; Kah 10d

From pressure — Berd, v.* Canth ; Colch.; Solid.

From sitting — Berb. « ; Ferr. mur.

From stooping, lying down — Berb. v.

From stretching legs — Colch.

From wine -- Benz. ac.

On left side ---.Esc.; Berb. v.; Hedeoma, Hydrang.; Tah:

On right side — Am. bdenz.; Can. ind.; Chel., Equis.; Lith.
ej Lyc.; Ocimum; Phyt.; Picr. uc.; "Sars., Tereb
AMELIORAYIONS — From lying on back: Cahinca.
From lying on back, legs drawn up — Co!ch,
From standing —-- Berb. v
From urination —-Iyc ; Med °
From walking -— Ferr. mur.
URINARY SYSTEM 911

PERI-NEPHRITIS — Acon ; Bry ; Chin. s.; Hep.; Merc.; Sil.
PYELITIS — Inflammation of pelvis: Acute: Acon.: 4rs.; Aur.;
Bell., Bens. ac., Berb. v.; Bry.; Can. S., Canth ; Cinch.;
Cop., Cupr ars. Epig.; Ferr. mur.; Hekia; Hep; Kali
bich.; Aferc. e3 Nit. ac.; Puls.; Rhus t., Stigm.; Tereb.;
Thuya; Tritic ; Uva, ber v
Calculous —- Hep ; Hiydrang., yc: Piparas., Sil; Uva. See
Nephrohthiasis
Chronic -— ars.; Renz ac, Berb, vi Buchu; Lhimaph 5 Chin.
s; Cinch.: Cop. Hep.; Hvdrast mur ; IIyd rast. 5, Juno.: ;
Kali bich.: QL sant, Pareira; Puls, Sep; sil: Sul;
Stigm.; Uva.
SENSITIVENESS, tenderness- fron. Apis: Berb o7., Cale.
ars.; Can. s., Canth, Equi; J/eloa., Phyt; Selid ; Tereb
Sce Pain.
SYPHILIS — Aur.: Kali 10d; Mere c See Male Sexual Sys-
te

Traumatisms — Acon.; drn., Boll. Ver ov,

TUBERCULOSIS — - irs 10d. - Bac., Cal, c3 Cale hypoph.;
Cale. 10d.; Chin ars.; Chin. s , Hekla; Kal: 10d.; Kreos.
See Tuberculosis (Re spiratoiy Svstem)

URETHRA — Burning, smarting. heat — .feou., Miss, Arg. 1.;
Berl. 7; Cahinca; Cale c.3 Can. ind. Can, Canth. ;
Caps , Chimaph.; Clem , Con.; Cop.; Dig.: Gels ; “Hydrang.: ;
Merc. ¢.; Merc.; Mez; Nat. ¢.; Nit. mur, ac: dniscus;
Petrol.; Petros., Phos.; Selen.; staph.; Sul, Tereb ;
Thuya, Uran., Zing,

Burning between acts of urination— Berb. v.. Can. 5;

Caruncie — Can. s; Eucal.; Teucr.: Thuya.

Discharge, mucous ~~ Hep. i > Merc. c.; Nat. m.

Hemorrhage — Cale c.: Lyc

Inflammation (urethritis) — Acon.; Apis; Ar a ., Camph.;
Can. s.; Canth.; Caps.; Caust.; Cop.; Doryph.; ;
Gels ; Kali tich , Kali iod.: Merc. c.; now ‘Vy Petrol:
Sab.; Sul.; Thuya; Yohimb. Sce Male Sexual System.

Itching’ — Acon.; ; Alum.; Ambra; Arg. n.; Canth.; Caust.;
Col.; Ferr tod.; Ferr, m.: Ging; Lyc.; Merc. ; Mez.;
Nit. ac.; Ol. an.; Pareira; Petrol.; Petros.; Staph.; Sul.;
Thuya; Tussil.

MEATUS — Burning: Acon.; Ambra; Bor.; Can. s.; Canth.;

Caps., Clem ; Gels.; Menthol; Petros.; Selen.; Sul.; Zing.

Eruption around — Caps.

Itching — Alum.; Ambra; Caust.; Col.; Gins.; Fetros.

Ulcers around — Eucal.

Swelling — Acon; Arg. n.; Can. s.; Canth.; Cop.; Gels.;
Merc.; Ol. sant.; Sul. See Urethritis.

Membranous-prostatic involvement — Sabal.

PAIN IN URETHRA — — Conetricting: Arg. n.; Can. s.; Caps.;

Clem.; Ferr. iod.; Of. sant.; Petros.

Cutting — Alum.; Ant. ¢; ; Berd. v.; Canth,; Nat. m.; Onis-
cus; Petrus.

Soreness, tenderness irritation —Agn.; + Anag.; vs
Berd, v.; Brachygl.; Can. s.; Canth. ; Clem.; cop! "cub.
Ferr. pier.; 3 Gels.; Kali iod.; *Tussil,
912 URINARY SYSTEM

Stitching, stinging ~ Agar. ; 3 Apis; Arg. n.; Aspar 5 Berd,
v.; Can. ind; Cun. s.; Ca s.; Carbo v.; Clem. ; Mere. c.;
Merc.; Nit. ac; Petros. huya.

SENSIBILITY—Diminished — Kah br.

STRICTURE, organic — Acen.; Arg. n; Arn.; Cale. 10d.;
Canth » Clem., Eucal.; Paton infl.; Phos ; Puls.; Stl; Sul
io

Stricture, spasmodic —ABn.; Bell., Camph.; Canth ; Eryng ;
Hydrang ; Nux v

URINARY FLOW — DESIRE —Constant desire: = Absinth.:
wtcon, Ananth; Bell., Berb. v; Cact, Can s.; Canth..
Carho vi; Caust.; Coccus; Cop, Dig.; Dale ; yes. ;
Eup purp., Ferr, mur, Gels; Guaiac ; Kreos.; :
Lyssin; Murer, Op; Pareira; Ruta; Sabal, Senec., Sev.,
Staph., Sulphon.; Sul, Thuya; Tritic., Zing See Cystitis.

Constant after labor —-Op; Staph

Constant at night -—- Dig.; Sabal

Constant, on seeing running water Canth.; J.yssin, Sul.

DIABETES INSIPIDUS — Copious, profuse; polyuria; diuresis:
weet. ac, Acon.; Altal., Am. acct.; Apoc.; 4rg. m; Arg.
mur., Ars; .Jur. mur, Bell; Vry.; Cahinea, Can tind,
Caust ; Copa; Chm ss; Chionanth ; Cina: Cod, Cons.:
Dule ; Equis.; Eup. purp.; Ferr, mur.; Ferr. n.; Gels.;
Glycerin; Glon. maph. ; Guaco; Helleb.; Helon.; lgn.;

Indol; Kah os ; Kali iod.; Kah n.; Kreos.; ‘Tact. ac ; 3 Led.; 3
Lal. te: Lath. i Lye.; Merc c; ; Mosch.; Murer; Nat. m
Niccol. s 5 Nie ac.; Nux v.; Ol. an.; Oxytr., Phos. ac.;
Phos.; Physal,; Fier ac.; Plai. ium on., Pals.; Quass. ;
Rhus ar.; Samb ; Sang.; Santon.; Sars.; Scilla; Sinap. n.;
Spart.; Staph ; "Stroph.: Sul; Tarax.; ; ‘Tereb.; Thymol;
Thyr.; Uran.; Verbase.; Ver v. See Diabctes.

Copious at night Ambra; Kah iod.; Lac.; Wurex; Petrol.;
Phos, ac.; Quass.; Setila.

DYSURIA — Difficult, slow, painful: alcon.; Alum., Ant t3
Apis; Apoc.; selrg. n.; Arn.; Ars ; Bell.; Benz. ac ; Camph.;
Can. ind.; Can. s.; Canth.; Caps.: Cascara; Caust.; hi-
maph. 3 Clem. ; Coccus; Con.; Cop.; Cucuib. cit.; Dig.;

ule.; Epig.: Equis.; Eup. purp.; Febiana; Ferr. p.; Hep.;
Hydrang. ; Alyper.; ; Hyos; Kreos ; ; Lith, ¢; Lyc.; Merc.
Morph.; Mur, ac.; Nat. m.: Nit. ac; Nux v3 ; Ocimum;
OL sant., Op ; _ Pareiva, Petros.; Pichi; Plumb.; Pop. tr.;
Puls. ; Rhus ‘t.; Sabai ; Santon.; Sars., Selen.; Sep.;
Sohd.; Sta ph. Suugm 5 Taxus; Thiaspi; Tritic., Uva:
Verbase.; ; Nib. op inc. See Scanty.
Difficult, in pregnancy, and after confinement— Equis.
Difficult, in presence of others — Ambra; Hep.; Nat.-m.
Difficult, in young, married women -~ Stapli. 1
Difficult, must He down — Kicos.
Difficult, must sit bent backwards — Zinc.
Difficult, must stand with feet wide apart, body inclined
forward -- Chimarph
Difficult, must strain — 4con.; Alum.; Can. ind.; Chimaph.;
Equis.; Hyos., Wali c.; Kreos.; oS Mag. m.; Nux v.;
Op.; Papaya; Paretra, Prun. s.; Sabal; Zinc. See Bladder.
URINARY SYSTEM 913

Difficult, with prostatic or uterine diseases —Con.; Staph

Divided stream —- Anag;: Arg. n., Cau. s, Canth,

Feeble stream— Cham.; Clem; Helleb ; Mere.; Sars.

FREQUENT desire —- .4con.; Agar.; Ayn; Alfal ; Aloe: Alum.;
Ant. c; Apis, Arg nun; Aspar.; Aur mur; Bar. c.; Bell.;
Benz. ac.; Berb. v.; Bor. ac; Cale. ars.; Cale. «3 Can.
s.; Canth ; Caps; Carls; Caust ; Chimoph.; Clem.; Coc-
cus; Colch.; Col.; Conv ; Cub.; Dig.; Equis.; Ferr. p.;
Fer, picer.; Formica; Gels.; Glycerin; Helleb.; Helon ;
Hydrang.; Ign, Indol; Jatropha: Kal c.; Kal; Kreos ,
Lact. ac.; Lil. t., Lith benz: Lith c; Lye; Mere. a3
Nat. c; Nit. ac., Nex o., Ocrmum, Ol. sant.; Phos. ac.;
Piloc.; Ptumb.; Prun. sp, Pulex, I’uls : Sabal;  Sab.,
Samb.; Santon; Sars; Scilla, See; Sep., Sil; Staph;
Sal; Tritie.; Uva; bespa; Zing.

Frequent desire at night -— Alum.; Aur. mur., Bor; Calc.
c.; Carb. ac.; Caust.; Coccus; Con, Ferr.; Ferr. pier;
Glycerin; Graph., Kak c, Kreces ; Murex; Nat. m;
Phos. ac., Physal.; Pier uc: Pty , Sang.; Sats; Sella;
Sep.; Solan. lyc.; Sul.; Tereb > Thuya; Xetuphyl.

Imperative, irresistible, sudden desire - Acon.; Agar.; Aloe;
Apis, Arg ni Bor.; Can. 93 Cunth.; Carls.; Equis : Ign ;
Kreos ; \athy1.; Mere. c., Mere.; Murex: Naph.; Ol. an.;
Pareira; Petros ; Pop. tr, Prun sp; Puls ; Quass.; Santon.;
Scutel ; Sud; Thuya

Intermittent, interrupted flow -- Agai.; Can. ind.; Caps.;
Clem ; Con.; Gels.; Hep., Mag. 9.; Pulex; Puls.; Sabal;
Sars ; Sedum; Thuya Zinc. m

INVOLUNTARY -- Alum, -frg. .; Arn.; Ars.; Bell.; Cale.
ce.; Caust ; Cina; Dule, Kehin; Equus, Fers. m.: Gels.,
Hvos ; Kah bt.; Areos; Op.; Petrol.; Puls.;. Rhus ar.;
Rhus t; Ruta: Saba/, Saponm; Sars; Selen ; Senega;
Sil; Solan. lyc.; Sul., Uva; Xerophyl See Bladder.

Involuntary, at night --- Ars.; Bell.; Calc. ¢.; Caust.; Cina;
Kali br.; Kreos, Plant.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Seneea, Sep.;
Sil; Sul; Uva. See Enuresis.

Involuntary, during first sleep — Kreos.; Sep.

Involuntary, when coughing, sneezing, walking, laughing —
Bell.; Cale. c.; Canth.; Caps.; Caust.; Ferr. mj; Ferr.
mur.; Ferr. p.; Ign; Kah ¢.; Nat. m; Puls.; Scilla;
Selen.; Sul.; Vib. op ; Xerophyl.; Zine.

Involuntary, when dreaming of act -— Equis.; Kreos. de

Involuntary, without consciousness of ~~ Apoc.; Arg. 1n.;
Caust.; Sars.

RETENTION (ischuria) — 4con.; Apis; Apium gr.; Arn.; Ars.;
Rell.; Camph.; Can ind.; Can. s, Canth.; Caust.; Chimaph.;
Cie.; Cop.; Dule.; Equis.; Hup, buses Hyos.; Ign.; Lyc.;
Merc. c.; Morph ; Nux v.; Op.; Plumb. m.; Puls.; Rhus
t.; Sars.; Stigm.; Strych.; Sul.; Tereb.; Zine. m.

From atony of fundus ~ Tereb.

From cold or wet exposure — Acon.; Dulc.; Gels.; Rhus t.

From fever, acute illness — Ferr. p.; .

From fright -—— Acon. ; Op. :

From hysteria — Ign.; Zinc. :

From inflammation — Acon.; Can. ind.; Canth.; Nux v.;
nis, .

From overexertion — Arn.
914 URINARY SYSTEM

From paralysis — ( aust.; Dulc.; Hyos.; Nux v.; Op.; Plumb.
m., Strych

From post partum —- Ilyos ; Op.

From Prostatic, hypertrophy —Chimaph; Dig.; Morph ;
Zinc. Syvw Male Sexual System

From spasmodic constriction of neck of bladder — Rei/.;
Cact , Camph. ; 3; Canth.; Hyvos,, Ives NMuviv., Op.; Puls;
Rhus t, Stram , Thlasps

From suppressed discharges or eruptions — Camplh.

From surgical operations — Cast

SCANTY FLOW- -Alcon., Adon. v., <Ifal. \pis; Apoc 5 . 1g.
a.. Ars., Aur mur.. Bell, Benz. ac, Berb vs Bry 5
Camph.; Can. s.; Canth.; Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Chimaph. ;
Clem; Colch ; Col; Corv., Cape ars.; Dig.; Dule ;
Equis.; Eup. purp.; "Fluor ac. raph , Helleb., Junip,
Kali bich.; A Kalt chlot.; Kali sod.; Kre O83 3 Lach.; Leeith ;
Lil t., Lith. c; Lyc, Menthol, Mere. c.) Mere. cy. Nit.
ac; Nar vi; Op.; Phos.; Pier. ac, Piloc., Plumb.; Prun.
sp.; Pulex; Puls; Sab., Sars., Scilla; Sence , Scnega:
Sep.; Serum ang.; Solid., Stroph; Sul.; Sul. ac.; Sul-
phon.; Tereb.; Uva, Zing.

Scanty, drop by drop --con.; 2Esc.; Apis; Arn.;  Bell.;
Bor.; Canth.; Caps.; Caust: Clem; Cop.; Dig.; Equis 3
Inula; Lye., Merc. c.; | Merc.; Nux v.; Plumb.; Puls.;
Rhus t.; Sabai, Staph.; Sul.

STRANGURY — con, Ant t.3 Apis, Apow.s Arse: Bell. ;
Gamble Can, s., Canth.; Caps., Col.; Con.; Cop., Dule.;

ryng.; Hup. purp., lydrang.; Juncus; Junip. ; Junip. ve5
Lye; Merc. c., Morph.; ; Nux m; Nur wv, Parewa; Petros;
Tiun. ap.;  Puls.; Sab.; Sars, Senna: Stigm.; Tereb.;
‘Thiaspi; Teatse.; ; Urt.; Verbasc.; Zing.

In children — ; Lye; ; Sars.

In feruales — Arie!’ Caps.; ; Cop.; Dig.; Eup. purp.; Lil t;
Sab.; Staph.; Ver. v.; Vib. op.

Nervous type — Apis; Sell.; Cape; ; Eryng.; Morph.; Petros.

SUPPRESSION (anuria) — Acon.; ; Agar. ph, ; Alfal.; Apis;

Apoc.; Ars.; Ars. hyd.; Beél.,; Bry.; camphe * Canth.:
Coff.; Colch.; Cupr. ac.; _Dig.; ” Formal; Helleb.; Junip.;
Kah * dich. ; Koh chlor. ; Lyc,; Merc. ct Merc. cy. 3 Nie
ac; Op.; Oxyden.; Petrol.; Phyt.; Picr. ac.; Puls.; Sohd.;
Stigm.; Stram.; Tereb.? Ver. a. ; Zing ra

URINATION — COMPLAINTS BEFORE ACT: Anxiety, agony:
Acon., Bor.; Canth ; Phos. ac.

Burning — Ars.; Berb. v ; Camph.; Can. s.; Canth.; Coch-
Jear.; Cop. See Uretbra.

Leucorrhea, yellow -— Kreos.

Pain —Acon.; Berd. v., Bor., Canth.; Can. s.; Erig.; Kali. ¢;
Lith. c.; Lyc.; Piloc.; Rhus ar.; Sanic.:’ Sars.: ; Senega;
Sep. See Pain (bladder, kidneys, urethra).

COMPLAINTS DURING ACT —Burning, smarting: <com.;
Ambra; Anac.; Anag.; Apis; Apoc; Arg. n.; Ars., Berd.
v.; Bor. ac.; Bor.; ‘Camph. ; Can. ind.; Can, i Conth.;
Caps. ; Carbo v.;\Cepa; Chimaph.; Cop.; Dig.;
Epig.; Equs.; Evig.; Eryng. av.; Eup. burp. ; “Cele: Gly-
cerin; Helieb. ; Kreos.; Lye.; Merc. ¢c.; Nit. ac; Nux v.3 ;
Ocimum; Oi. sant.; Parewa; Phos.; Puls.; us ar:
Sep.; Staph.; Sul.; Tereb.; Thuya; Uva; Verbasc.; Vespa.

914 URINARY SYSTEM

From paralysis — ( aust.; Dulc.; Hyos.; Nux v.; Op.; Plumb.
m., Strych

From post partum —- Ilyos ; Op.

From Prostatic, hypertrophy —Chimaph; Dig.; Morph ;
Zinc. Syvw Male Sexual System

From spasmodic constriction of neck of bladder — Rei/.;
Cact , Camph. ; 3; Canth.; Hyvos,, Ives NMuviv., Op.; Puls;
Rhus t, Stram , Thlasps

From suppressed discharges or eruptions — Camplh.

From surgical operations — Cast

SCANTY FLOW- -Alcon., Adon. v., <Ifal. \pis; Apoc 5 . 1g.
a.. Ars., Aur mur.. Bell, Benz. ac, Berb vs Bry 5
Camph.; Can. s.; Canth.; Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Chimaph. ;
Clem; Colch ; Col; Corv., Cape ars.; Dig.; Dule ;
Equis.; Eup. purp.; "Fluor ac. raph , Helleb., Junip,
Kali bich.; A Kalt chlot.; Kali sod.; Kre O83 3 Lach.; Leeith ;
Lil t., Lith. c; Lyc, Menthol, Mere. c.) Mere. cy. Nit.
ac; Nar vi; Op.; Phos.; Pier. ac, Piloc., Plumb.; Prun.
sp.; Pulex; Puls; Sab., Sars., Scilla; Sence , Scnega:
Sep.; Serum ang.; Solid., Stroph; Sul.; Sul. ac.; Sul-
phon.; Tereb.; Uva, Zing.

Scanty, drop by drop --con.; 2Esc.; Apis; Arn.;  Bell.;
Bor.; Canth.; Caps.; Caust: Clem; Cop.; Dig.; Equis 3
Inula; Lye., Merc. c.; | Merc.; Nux v.; Plumb.; Puls.;
Rhus t.; Sabai, Staph.; Sul.

STRANGURY — con, Ant t.3 Apis, Apow.s Arse: Bell. ;
Gamble Can, s., Canth.; Caps., Col.; Con.; Cop., Dule.;

ryng.; Hup. purp., lydrang.; Juncus; Junip. ; Junip. ve5
Lye; Merc. c., Morph.; ; Nux m; Nur wv, Parewa; Petros;
Tiun. ap.;  Puls.; Sab.; Sars, Senna: Stigm.; Tereb.;
‘Thiaspi; Teatse.; ; Urt.; Verbasc.; Zing.

In children — ; Lye; ; Sars.

In feruales — Arie!’ Caps.; ; Cop.; Dig.; Eup. purp.; Lil t;
Sab.; Staph.; Ver. v.; Vib. op.

Nervous type — Apis; Sell.; Cape; ; Eryng.; Morph.; Petros.

SUPPRESSION (anuria) — Acon.; ; Agar. ph, ; Alfal.; Apis;

Apoc.; Ars.; Ars. hyd.; Beél.,; Bry.; camphe * Canth.:
Coff.; Colch.; Cupr. ac.; _Dig.; ” Formal; Helleb.; Junip.;
Kah * dich. ; Koh chlor. ; Lyc,; Merc. ct Merc. cy. 3 Nie
ac; Op.; Oxyden.; Petrol.; Phyt.; Picr. ac.; Puls.; Sohd.;
Stigm.; Stram.; Tereb.? Ver. a. ; Zing ra

URINATION — COMPLAINTS BEFORE ACT: Anxiety, agony:
Acon., Bor.; Canth ; Phos. ac.

Burning — Ars.; Berb. v ; Camph.; Can. s.; Canth.; Coch-
Jear.; Cop. See Uretbra.

Leucorrhea, yellow -— Kreos.

Pain —Acon.; Berd. v., Bor., Canth.; Can. s.; Erig.; Kali. ¢;
Lith. c.; Lyc.; Piloc.; Rhus ar.; Sanic.:’ Sars.: ; Senega;
Sep. See Pain (bladder, kidneys, urethra).

COMPLAINTS DURING ACT —Burning, smarting: <com.;
Ambra; Anac.; Anag.; Apis; Apoc; Arg. n.; Ars., Berd.
v.; Bor. ac.; Bor.; ‘Camph. ; Can. ind.; Can, i Conth.;
Caps. ; Carbo v.;\Cepa; Chimaph.; Cop.; Dig.;
Epig.; Equs.; Evig.; Eryng. av.; Eup. burp. ; “Cele: Gly-
cerin; Helieb. ; Kreos.; Lye.; Merc. ¢c.; Nit. ac; Nux v.3 ;
Ocimum; Oi. sant.; Parewa; Phos.; Puls.; us ar:
Sep.; Staph.; Sul.; Tereb.; Thuya; Uva; Verbasc.; Vespa.

URINARY SYSTEM 915

Chill — Acon.; Sars.; Sep.

Meatus, agglutination — Anag ; Can. s.

Meatus, burning (also prepuce) — Calad.; Cale. c.; Can. $.;
Gels.; Menthol; Merc. c.; Puls.

Meatus, itching — Ambra; Cop.; Lyc.; Nux v.

PAINS IN GENERAL — dcon.; Apis; Arg. n.; Berb. aq.; Berb.
v.; Blatta am.; Bor. ac.; Camph. 5 Can, s.; Canth.; Caps.
Chimaph.; Cot.; Dig.; Doryph.; Equis.; Erig.; Graph.
Hedeoma; Lith. c.; Lyc., Mere; Nit. ac; Nur.v
Pareira; Petrol.; Phos.; Puls.; Raus ar.; Sabal; Sars.

ep.

Cutting, stinging, stitching---fcon.; Ant. c.; Apis; Berb
aq.; Berb. v.; Bor.; Camph.; Can. s.; Canth.; Cochlear.
Col.; Con.; Hydrang., Nux v.; Pareira; Puls.

Drawing, radiating to labia — I:upion. °

Drawing, radiating to chest and shoulders --- Glycerin.

Drawing, radiating to perineum — I,vc.; Sep.

Drawing, radiating to sacrum, coccyx — Graph.

Drawing, radiating to testicles — Berb. v.; Cachinca; Erig.

Drawing, radiating to thighs —- Berb. v.; Parcira.

Pressive —-Camph.; Cop, Lyc.; Sep.

Pressive in heart -- 1 ith c.

Spasmodic, toward end of act —— 4rg.  ; Bor, ac.; Puls.

Stool, involuntary ~~ Sul.

Sweating -—- Merc c

COMPLAINTS AFTER ACT — Burning, smarting: Acon.
Anac.; Apis; Arg n; Bell; Berb. wv.; camph.; Can. s.
Canth.; Caps., huraph Cochlear ; Cub; Krees.; Lye.
Mag. s, Merc. c., Nat. c; Nat. m.; Phos. ac; Pschi
Puls ; Rhus t ; Senega; Staph.; Sul.; Thuya; Uva.

Dribbling — Arg. .; Calc. c.; Camph.; Can. ind.; Caust..
Clem, Con.; Lye; Pareirva; Selen.; Thuya; Zing. See
Bladder.

Emission, seminal — Calad.; Hep.; Phos. ac.

Exhaustion — Ars.; Berb. v.

Hemorrhoids — far. c.

Meatus, and urethra, tingling — Clem.; Thuya.

Meatus, burning — Caps.; Puls.

PAINS — Aching, bruised: Berd. v.; Equis.; Sul.

Cutting, tearing, stitching — Berb. v.; Bov.; Camph.; Can.
S.; Canth.; Caps., Cochlear.; Cub.; Guaiac.; Mag. s.; Mere.
acet.j Nat. m.; Nux v.; Petros.; Prun. sp.; Sars.; Thuya;

va.

Pressive, in perineum — Am. m.; Lyc.

Sensation as if urine remained behind— Alum.; Berb. v.;
Dig.; Eup, purp.; Eryng. aq.; Gels.; Hep.; Kali bich.;
Sec.; Sil.; Staph.; Thuya.

Severe, at close, and after act — Apis; Berb. v.; Canth.;
Echin.; Equis.; Lith. c.; Med.; Merc. acet.; Nat. m.;
Petros.; Puls.; Ruta; Sers.; Staph.; Thuya.

Spasmodic — Nat. m.; Nux v.; Puls.

Perspiration —- Merc. c.

Tenesmus, urging, straining — Arg. n.; Comph.; Chimaph.;
Epig.; Equis.; Eryng. aq.; Lith. c.:; Nit. ac.; Pichi; Pop.
tr.; Puls.; Ruta; Sabal; Sars.; Staph.; Stigm.; Sul,

URINE — TYPE: Acid: Acon.; Benz. ac.; Canth.; Chin. s.;
Evonym: Lith. c.: Lave; Mere. c., Mur. ac: Nit. ac;
916 URINARY SYSTEM

Nit. mur. ac.; Nux v; Ocimum; Puls.; Sars; Sep.; Sul;
Uva. See Burning.

ALBUMINURIA — Albuminous: Acctan.; Adon. v.; Am. benz.;
Ant. t.; Apis; Ars; Aur, mur.; Bell.; Berb. v.; Calc.
ars.; Can. s; Canth.; Carb. ac.; Chin. s.; Colch.; Conv.;
Cop.; Cup. ac.; Cupr. ais; Dig.; Equis.; Euonym,;
Eup. purp.; Fer, ars.; Ferr. mur; Ferr. picr.; Formica;
Fuschina; Glon.; Helieb.; Helon.; Kali chlor.; Kal.; Lach.;
Leath ; ath, «3; Lye; Merc. c.; Mere. cy.; Methyl. bl.;
Mur. ac.; Nit. ac.; Ocimum; Ol sant.; Osm.; Phos. ac.;
Phos. Plumb, c.; Plumb. m.; Radium, Sab.; Scilla; Sec.;
Sil: Soltd.; Stroph.; Tereb.; Thyr.; Uran. n.; Viscum a.

Alkaline — Am. c.; Benz. ac.; Kal; acet.; Mag. p.; Phos. ac.
See Nephritis. °

BLOODY (hematuria) —-4Acon.; Ant t.; Apis; Arn; Ars.;
Ars. hydrog.; Bell., Berb. v., Cact; Camph.; Can. s.;
Canth., Carb. ac.; Chin v3 Cima, Cinch ; Coccus; Caleh.,
Cop., Crot., Dule.; Epig.; [quis . Erig.; Fucal, Ferr. p.;
Ficcus; Gall. ac; Geran.; Ham., Hep., Tpec., Kali chlor.;
Lach,; Lyc.; Mangif. ind.; Mere cy Mere.; Miilef.; Nit.
ac.; Nux v., Ocamum; Ql, sant, Pareira; Phos.; Pichi;
Picr. ac.; Plumb.; Rhus ar.; Sab; Santon.; Sars.; Scilla;
Sec.; Senec.; Solid.; Stigm.; Tereb ; Thlasps; Uva.

Burning, scalding, hot — Acon.; Apis; Bell.; Benz. ac.;
Bor., Camph.: Can, s ; Canth.; Coccus; Conv.; Hep.; Kali
bich ; Kal.; Lac; Merc. c.; Nit. ac; Phos.; Pichi; Pop.
tr.; Sars ; Sul. See Acid.

Cold feeling — Nit ac.

Heavy feeling — Thlaspi.

Oily pellicle — Adon, v., Crvt. t.; Iep.; Lyc.; Iod., Petrol.;
Phos.; Sumbul.

Viscid, gluey —- Col ; Parcira; Phos. ac. See Deposit.

COLOR — APPEARANCE — Black, inky: Apis, Arn.; Benz.
din.; Bens. ac.; Canth.; Carb. ac.; Colch.; Dig.; Hel
leb.; Kreos.; Lach.; Merc. c., Naph.; Nit. ac; Pareira;
Tereb,

Brown, dark -—~ 4pis; Apoc.; Arg. n.; Arma; Ars; Bell;
Bens, ac.; Bry.; Canth.; Carb, ac.; Carbo v.; Chel.; Chin.
s.; Coceus; Colch; Crot.; Dig.; Fluor. ac; Helleb.; Kah
ce; Kah chlor.; Lach.; Lye; Merce. ¢.3; Myr.; Nat. chlor ;
Nit. ac; Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Phyt.; Pier. ac.;
Plumb.; Piun. sp.; Raus ¢., Sep.; Solid; Staph.; Sul-
phon.; Tereb,

Cloudy, turbid — Ambra; Am. c.; Apoc.; Arg. m.; Ars.;
dur. mur.; Bell.; Bens. ac.; Berb. v.; Camph.; Can. s.;
Canth., Card. m., Caust.; Chel.; Chimaph.. Cain s.; Cina,
Colch.; Col.; Con.: Cop.; Crot. t.; Daphne; Dig.; NDule;
Graph ; Helleb.; Helon.; Hep.. Khali c.; Kreos.; Lith. c.;
Lye ; Nit. mur. ac.; Ocimum; Petrol.; Phos. ac.; Phos.;
Plumb.; Puls ; Raph; Rhus t.; Sars.; Sep.; Solid.; Sul;

peg , Yhuya; Zing.

— Pell, Cale. «3 Digs a «> Lye; ;

. Nie, ac. Sep. c.; Dig; Helleb.; Lach.; Lyc.; Mere;

Frothy -— Apis, 3erb. 2, .: Crot. t; a .
Ragh.; Sars. Cop.; Crot. t; Cub.; Lach; Myr.;
URINARY SYSTEM 17

Greenish —— Ars, Berb. v., Camph.; Can ind.; Carb. ac.
Ceanoth.; Chimaph.; Cop.; Laburn.; Mag. s, QO! an.
Santon.; Uva.

Milky — Chel.; Cina; Col.; Con.: Eup. purp., lod, Lil t
Merc.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Raph.; Still; Uva; Viola od

Pale, clear, limpid —- cet. ac, Berb. v.; Caust; Crot. t.,
Equis.; Gels.; Helon.; Ign.; Kreos.; Lycop.; Mosch.; Nat
m.; Nit. ac; Nux v.; Phos. ac; Phos.; Puls.; Staph.
Sul. See Polyuria.

Pink,— Sulphon.

Red, dark — 4con.; Apis; Rell; Benz. ac; Brx., Canth.
Carbo v; Coccus; Cup. ac; Dig.; Hep.; Koh dich.
Lob. infl; Mere. c: Mere. d; Nux v.; Petrol.; Phyt.
Scilla; Selen.; Solid.

Red, fiery, high celored-- 4con ; Ant c; Apis; Apoc.; Arg,
n.; Ars; Bell.; Benz. ac.; Berb, v., Bry.; Camph; Can. s.
Canth.; Carb. ac.; Cepa; Chel.; Chimaph ; Cupr. ac
£qus.; Euonym; Glon; Helleb; Hep.; Kali bich.; Lsth.
c.; Lyc; Mere. d; Myr.; Nit. ac, Ocimum; Phyt.; Pier
ac: Puls; Rheum; ARhus t, Sad; Sars; Selena: Senec
Sul.; Tereb.; Thuya; Uva.

Smoky -~ Am. benz.; Benz. ac.; Helleb.; Tereb. See Bloody,

Thick -—— Ananth.; Benz. ac; Camph.; Coceus; (ol; Con.
Daphne; Dig.: Dute.; Hep., lod.; Mere. ¢., Ocimum
Phos.; Still, Sep., Zing.

Yellow — Absinth., Bell; Bersb. yv., Card. m., Ceanoth.
Cinch.; Daphne; Ivdr.; Ign.; Kal; Lact. ac.; Ocimum
Qp ; Solid.; Uva.

Yellow, dark — Bov ; Bry., Camph.; Chel.; Chenop.; Crot. t.
Tod., Kah p., Myr: Petrol; Pier. ac; Pod.

ODOR — Fetid, foul: 4m bens, Am c; Apis; Ars; Aspar.
Bapt., Bens a.* Rerb. v, Cale. c.; Camph.; Carbo an.
Chimaph., Col.; Conv.; Cupr. ars; Daphne; Dule; Graph,
Hydr.; Indium; Kah bich.; Kreos.; Lach.; Lyc.; Mere.
Naph.; Nst. ac.; Ocimum; Petrol; Phos., Physal.; Pulex
Sep.; Soid.; Stront. br.; Sul; Tropzol.; Uran, n.

Fish-like — Uran. n

Garlicky — Cupr ars

Musk-like — Ociinum.

Pungent, ammoniacal-- Bor.; Cahinca; Cop.; 14g.; Naph.;

it. ac.; Pareiwa, Petrol.; Solid.; Stigm.

Sharp, intensely strong --- 4bsinth., dm  benz.; Arg. n.;
Bens. ac.; Bot., Calc. c., Carbo v.; Chin. 5.5 Erig.; Lyc.;
Picr. ac; Pin.-sylv.; Sul., Viola od.; Zing.

Sharp, like cat’s urine — Cajup.; Viola tr.

Sharp, like horse’s urine — Benz. ac.; Nit. ac.

Sour — Cale. c.; Graph.; Nat. c.; Petrol.; Sep.; Solid.

Sweet, violaceous— .\rg. m.; Cop.; Cub.; Eucal.; Ferr. iod.;
Inula; Junip., Phos: Primula; Salol; Tereb.; Thyr.

Valerian, Hke — Murex.

SEDIMENT — TYPE: Aceton (azoturia): Ars.; Aur. mur.;
Calc, mur.; Carb. ac.; Canst.; Colch.; Cupr. ars.; Eunonym.;
Nat. sal.; Phos.; Senna.

Bile —Ceanoth , Chionanth.; Chel.; Kali chlor.; Myr.; Nat.
s.; Sep. See Liver.
918 URINARY SYSTEM

Blood — A1s.; Berb z., Cact.; Can. s.; Canth.; Curb. oc;
Colch ; Dulce ; Ham., Hep.; Lyc.; Net. ac., Pareira; Phos.;
Tereb. See Bloody.

Casts — Apis; Ars.; Aur. mur.; Brachygl.; Canth.; Carb. ac.;
Chel.; Crot; Kah chlor.; Merc c.; Nat. chlor.; Phos ;
Picr. ac.; Picht; Plumb.; Radium; Sulphon.; Tereb. See
Nephritis.

Cells, debris — Arg. n.; Ars.; Berb. v.; Brachygl.; Cact.;
Canth.; Carb. ac.; Chel.; Crot.; Hep.; Kali bich.; Mere. c.;
Phos , Picr. ac.; Solid.; Tereb. See Nephritis.  -

Chlorides, diminished -—- Bar. m ; Chel.; Col.

Chlorides, increased — Chin. s.; Radium; Senna. ;

Chyluria — Col.; lod.; Kah bich.; Phos. ac.; Uva. See Milky

Urine.

Coffe-ground like — J)ig. Helleb.; Tercb.

Flocculent, flaky — Berb. v.; Caust.; Phos ; Sars. ,

Gelatinous, gluey, viscid — Berb. v.; Cina; Col.; Ocimum;
Phos. ac., Puls. See Mucous.

Grayish-white, granular — Berb v.; Calc. c ; Canth.; Graph.;
Sars.; Sep.

Hematoporphyrinuria -— Suiphon., Tron.

Heemoglobinuria --- Ars. hydrog.; Carb. ac.; Chin. ars.; Chin.
s.; Ferr. p.; Kali bich., Kal chlor., Phos.; Pier. ac.;
Santon

Indican -— Alfal ; Indol, Pict. ac.

Lithic acid, uric acid, gravel, brick dust-—— Arg. n.; Arn.;
Aspar.; Baros.; Bar. m.; Bell; Benz. ac.; Berb. v.; Cale.
e: Cale. ren; Can. s; Canth., Caust.; Chel.; Chin. 5s.;
‘inch ; Coccin sept; Cochlear.; Coccus; Colch.; Col.;
Dig.; Diose.: dpig., Hap. ar.; Eup. purp, Fryng.; Ferr.
mur.; Galum; Graph; Hedeoma; Hydrang.; Kan Cs
Kali iod ; Kreos.; Lith bens.; Lith. c.; Lob. mfl.; Lye;
Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Nit ac.; Nit. mur. ac.; Nua v.; Ocomum;
Pareira; Pariet ; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Physal., Pichi; Piperaz.;
Plumb. iod.; Puls.; Sars.; Senna; Sep.; Skook. ch.; Sold.:
Stigm.; Thlaspt; Tritic.; Urt.; Vesic. See Calculi.

Mucus, slime— Apoc; Ars.;  <Aspar.; Bals._ per.; Baros.;
Rens. ac.; Berb. v.; Brachygl.; Cale. c.; Can. s.; Canth.;
Chimph.; Chin. s.; Cina; Cub.; Dulce; Epig.; Equts.;
Eup. purp.; Hep.; Hydrang.; Kali bich.; Lyc.; Menthol;
Merc. c.; Nit. ac.; Nux_v.; Pareira; Pichi; Pop. tr.; Puls.;
Sars.; Senega; Sep.; Sold.; Stigm.; Sul.; Tritic.; Uva.
See Cystitis,

Oxalates (oxaljuria) — Berb v.; Brachygl.; Kali s.; Lysidin;
Nit. ac.; Nit. mur. ac.; Ox. ac., Senna.

Phosphates (phosphaturia) — 4.fal.; | Arn.; Avena; Bell.;
Benz. ac.; Brachygl. i Cale. c.; Cale. p.; Can. s.; Chel:
Chin. s.; Graph.; Guaco; Guaiac.; Helon.; Hydrang.; Kali
chlor.; Lecith.; Nit. ac.; Phos. ac.; Picr. ac.; Sang.;
Senna; Soiid.; Thlaspi; Uran. n.

Pus (pyuria) --virs.; Aspar.; Baros.; Beng ac; Berd. v.3
Rry.; Cale. c; Can. s.; Canth.; Chimaph.; Cop.; Dulc.;
Lpia, Eueal.; Hep.: Hyos.; Kali bich,; ith. c.; Lyc;
Mere. c, Nit ac: Nux v.; Ocimum; Phos.; Pichi; Pop.
tr; Sars; Sep, Stigm., Sul.; Tereb.; Thlaspi; Tritic.;

ve.
Rose colored —- Am _ phos.
URINARY SYSTEM 919

DIABETES — Sugar: -lcct ac. Adven, \m. acet, Arg. 9.;
Arg. ni Arstol; Arn; drs br, Ars, rod; Ars; Asclep.
vine.; .fi Aur, mur, Bell, Aor. ac., Bov ; Brv., Caps;
Carb, ac; Ceanoth . Cham.; Chel; CAunaph.; Chionanth.,
Coca: Cod., Colch.; Crat., Cupr. ars.; Cur; Eup. purp.
Fel tauii; Ferr. 10.5 Ferr. mur.. Fluor. ac.; Glon.; Gly-
eerin; Grind; /felleb.; Helon., lod.; Isrts; Kali acet.;
Kali br.; Kreos, ivach.; Lact. ac., Lecith.; Lycop.; Lye:
Morph ; Mosch.: Murex; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Nit. ac.; Nux
v.; Op: Pancreat.; Phaseol.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Phiorid.;
Picr. ac.; Flumb. iod.; Plumb.; Pod.; Rhus ar., Scilla;
Sec.; Sil.: Sisyg.; Strych ars.; Sul; Tar. hi; Tarax:
Yereb.; Uran n.; Usea; Vanad.

Assimilative disorders —Uran. n.

Gastro-hepatic origin — -irs. tod., Ars.; Bry: Cale. c3
Cham ; Chel.; Kreos.; Lact. ac.; Lept, Lye; Nux wv;
Wran, n.

Nervous origin-— Ars; Aur. mur.; Cale. c¢; /gn.; Phos. ac.;
Strych, ars.

Pancreatic origin — Iris; Panercat ; Vhos.

With debility — Acct. ac.; Op.

With gangrene, boils, carbuncles, diarrhea — Ars.

With gouty symptoms — Lact. ac.; Nat. s.

With impotency — Coca; Mosch.

With melancholia, emaciation, thirst, restlessness — Jiclon

With motor paralysis — Cur.

With rapid course — Cur,; Morph

With ulceration —- Sizyg.
MALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

BUBO — Acon , .\ngust.; Apis; Aur. mur.; Bad.; Bell., Calend.;
Carbo an., Catbo v; Caust.; Cinnab., Hep.; Jacar.; Kaki
tod., Mere 1. 7, Merc. pr. rub.; Merc. s.; Nit. ac.; Phos.

ac.; Phyt, Sil; Sul;

Syph.; Tar. c

Bubo, chancroidal — Ars. iod.; Merc. c; Merc. t. £.; Merc.

s., Si

Bubo, indurated —- Alum.; Bad ;
Bubo, phagedenic — Irs , I
Merc. s., Nit. ac., Sil; Sul.

Mero ow nr,

CHANCROID — Coral.;
Merc. s.; Nit. ac.; Thaya. .
Chancroid, complications -~.irs., Ickla; Hep., Lach.; Stl;

Sul.; Thuya.

COITUS — Aversion to:

Coitus, followed by
Coitus, followed by
Coitus, followed by
Coitus, followed by
Coitus, followed by
Coitus, followed by
Con; Dig; Aah
See Impotence
Coitus, followed by
Coitus, tollowed by
Coitus, followed by
Coitus, followed by
Coitus, followed by

Coitus, painful — Arg. n.; Cale cc; Sabal.
- Aur
Mete; Nat. s.; Nit, ac., Sab., Staph.; Thuya.

CONDYLOMATA
Eve,
Syphi lis.

Carbo an

lydr.; “Kah tod.; Lach ;
Merc.

Graph.;

Jacar.; Kah bich ; pr. sub;

Arn: Graph ; Lye. See Desire.
backache — Can ind.; Kali c.
irritability -~ Selcn.

nausea, vomiting -— Mosch.
pain in perineum — Alum.
pain in urethra -— Canth.
prostration — Agar.; Cale. c; Cinch;
ce, Kali p.; Nat. ¢; Selen.; Thaspium.

toothache — Daphne.
urging tu urmate
vertigo -— Bov ; Sep
vomiting — Mosch
weak vision — Kali c.

Staph

See Impotence
mur; Ciimnab.; Euphras.; Kali iod.;

See

CONTUSIONS — Of genitals: A:n.; Con.

DESIRE — Diminished, lost: Agn.; Arg. x, Bar. c; Berb. v.
Calad = Cale. c., Caps.; Con., Hep.: Ign.; Iod.; Kali br.
Kali c., Lecith.; Jyc., Nit. ac; Nuph; Onosm.; Oxytr.,

Phos. ac; Sabal, Selen., Sil, Sul; X-ray. See Im
potence.
Desire increased (erethism, satyriasis) — Alum.: Anac.,

Bov.; Camph., Can
ac; Gins , Graph.
Nat m; Mux t.:

Lyssin; Alosch.;
Phos , Picr. ac.;

wd; Can. s.; Canth ; Dule.; Fluor
: Uippom.; Hyos ; Kal br.; Lach.; Lye.
OL an.; Onosm.; Orig.
Plat, Sab- Saha _n.; Stram.; Tar. h.

Thasprum; Thymol; Upas; Ver. a.; Zinc. p

sire perverted — A\gn.; Nux v-
Desire suppressed, ill effect from
GENITALS -— Burning, heat:

Genitals, itching

d., Caps,

Plat.; Staph.
— Con.

Spong.; Sil. See Gonorrh-xa.

(prurttus) — Agar.; Ambra, Anac.: Calad.;
Fagop., Rhus d.; Rhus t..
Genitals, relaxed, flabby,

Cinch ,

Sep.; Sul.; Tar c. See Skin.
cold, weak --- Absinth., dgn., Ca-
Con, Drose.: Gels., Ham; Lye;
MALE SEXUAL SYSTEM 921

Nuph.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Selen.; Sep.; Staph.; Sul.; Uran.
See Impotence.

GONORRHOEA — (specific urethritis: Remedies in general:
aicon.; Agn.; Apis, Arg on, Baros.; Benz. ac.; Camph.;
Can s.; Canth.; Caps.; Clem.; Cop., Cub.; Dig.; Doryph.;
Echin ; Equis.;) Eng.; Fucal.; Euphorb  pil., Fabiana,
Ferr.; Gels., Hep i Hydr.; Achthy.; Jacar.; Kah bich.-
Kali s.; Kreos.; Med.; Mere c., Mere. pr. rub.; Mere.
s., Merc. vw, Methyl bl.; Naph.; Nat. s.; Nit, ac. Nux
v.35 Ol sant, Parena, Petos., Prchts Pine io: Pauls ,
Sabal, Sab.; Salin n., Sep, Sil; Stigm.; Sul, Tereb.;
Thuya; Tritie.; Tussi; Zing.

Acute, inflammatory stage — 4corn., Arg. nj; Atrop.; Can.
s, Canth., Caps.. Gels., Petros

Adenitis, lymphangitis - Acon.; Apis; Beli; Hep, Mere

Chordee — A\con , cigave, .tnac.; Arg on.; Bell; Camph.
monobr , Can ind., Can. s.; Canth.; Caps.; Clem.; Cop.;
jels.; Hyos:; Jacar.: Kal br., Lupul.; Mere.; (Enanthe;
Ol sant; Phos.; Pter ac; Pip om, Salix nj; Tereb.;
Tussil.; Yohimb.; Zine.; Zine. pier.

Chronic, subacute stage -- Arg. n.; Can. 5s; Cop.; Cub.;
Erig.; Hep ; Hydr.; Kah s, Mere c+: Mere 1 13 Mere;
Naph.; Nat. s, OJ. sant., Pin. c.: Psor.; Puls., Rhod.;
Sabal; Sil.; Stigm ; Sul, Thuya. See Gleet

Cowperitis —— Acon.; Can. s., Gels.; Hep., Merc. c.; Petros.;
Pichi; Sabal; Sil. Sce Bladder.

DISCHARGE — Acrid, corroding: Cop; Gels.; Jivdr.; Mere.
c., uya.
Bloody — Arg n.; Can.h.; Cub.; Merc. c.; Millet.
Milky, glairy, mucus — Can. ind; Can. s; Cop; Cupr.
ars; Graph; Hydr.; Katt bich.; Nat. m.; Petros.; Puls.;
Sep See Gleet
Muco-purulent, yellowish-green-— Agn.; Alum; Arg. 2.;
Baros.; Can. s., Canth.; Caps; Cob.; Cop.; Cub.; Dig.;
Hep ; Hydr.; Jacar.; Kali s ; Merc. c.; Merc. s.; Nat. m;
Nat. s.; Ol. sant.; Puls., Sab.; Sep.; Sil; Sul.; Thuya;
Tussil.; Zing. See Gleet.
Watery — Can. s, Fluor ac; Mez.; Millef; Nat. m.; Sep;
Sul.; Thuya.
Folliculitis — Caps.; Hep. Mere. 5; Sep: Sil.

GLEET— Abics c.; 4gn., Arg. n; Calad.; Cale. p.; Can. s.;
Canth ; Caps.: Chunaph : Cimaab , Clem; Cub.; Doryph ;
Eng.; Graph.; Hydr.; Kali bich.; Kali iod.; Kali s.;
Matico; Med.; Merc.; Naph.; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Nit. ac.;
Nux v.; Ol. sant; Petros ; Pip. m.; Pop. tr.; Puls.; Sabal;
Selen.; Sep.; Sil.; Thuya; Zine. mur.

Ophthalmia — Acon.; Apis; Arg. n.: Bell.; Ipec.; Mere. c.
Orchitis, epididymitis — Aur. m.; Clem.; Gels.; Ham.; Puls.;
Rhod ; Spong.
Prostatic involvement —Caps.; Cub.; Pareira; Thuya, See
Rheumatisen—Acon.: A Clem; C
umatism —Acon.; Arg. 7.3; em.; Cop.; Daphne; Gels.;
Guaiac.; Iod.; Irisin; Kali iod; Med.; Merc.; Nat. 8.:
Phyt.; Puls.; Sars.; Sul.; Thuya, i Nate 85
Stricture, organic — Acon; Arg. .: Calc. iod.; Canth;
Caps.; Clem.; Cop.; Fluor, ac.; Tod.; Kali sud.; Mere. pr.
922 MALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

rub.; Merc., Nux v., Ol sant; Parca. Petrol; Pals 5
Sep.; Sil.; Sul.; Sul. iod ; Thiosin ; Thuya.
Suppression, ill effects— Agn., Ant. t.; Benz. ac. Clem.;
ali iod.; Med.; Nat. s.; Puls.; Thuya; X-ray.
IMPOTENCE — -ign.; Anac., Ant. c.3 Arg. a; Arn.; Ars.;
Avena; Bar’ c.; Berb. v.; Calad., Cale c¢  Camph.; Car-
bon. s.; Chin. 5.3 Cinch.; Tob., Con, Damana; Dig.;
Diose.; Gels.; Glycerin; Graph.; Ilyper : Ign; lod.; Kali
br.; Kali 1od; Lecith.; Lyc.; Nat. m, Nit. ac; Nuph;
Nur wv, Onosm.; Phos. ac.; Phos., Picr ac.; Plumb. m.;
Sabal, Saha n.; Selen.; Sep.; Sil; Staph.; Strych.; Sul.;
Trobul.; Yohwmb.; Zinc.; Zine. p. See Spermatorrhea
MASTURBATION — Ill effects: Agn.; Anac.; Apis; Bellis;
Calad., Cale. ¢, Cale. p.; Conch.; Con, Diosc., Gels.,
Graph.; Grat.; Kah br.; Lyc.; Nat. m;, Nux v3 Phos. ac.;
Hicr. ac, Plat.; Salix n.; Staph.; Stil; Sul, Tab;
Thuya; Tribul.; Ustil.; Zinc. m.; Zine oayd.
PENIS — Atrophy: Ant. c; Arg. m.

Glans: Epithelioma: Arg. n.; -irs ; Con.; Thuya.

Gangrene — Canth ; Lach.

Itching— Acon., Ars.; Bell.; Calad.; Canth.: Caps.; Cinch.:
Cinnab.; Coccus; Con., Cop.; Coral.; Crot. t.; Graph.;
Ham.; Hep., Ign.; Kah bich.; Lye.; Mere.; Nat. m.; Nux
v.; Puls.; Selen.; Sep.; Staph.; Sui., Thuya; Viola tr.

PAINS — Burning, sore: Anac.; .47s.; Bell.: Can. s.; Canth.;
Caps.; Cinch.; Cinnab., Con.; Cop.; Coral.; Crot. t.; Gels.;
Jgn.; Lye.; Merc. c.; Mez.; Nt. ac., Nuph.; Nux v.;
Puls ; Rhus t.; Sep.; Sul; Thuya; Viola tr.

Cutting, stitching, tearing — dcun., Apis, .1rg. n; Calad.;
Can. s.; Canth.; Caps.; Con.; Hep; Lyc., Naph.; Nat. m.;
Nit. ac.; Papaya; Paresra; Petrol; Phos ac; Phyt.; Prun.
sp.; Sars.; Staph.; Sul.

Pressive, pinching -- Canth.; Caps.; Graph.; Kali bich.; Nit

. ac.; Puls.; Rhod.

Throbbing — Coccus; Ham.; Lith. c.; Nat m.; Nit. ac.

Priapism. Sce Chordec.

Pustules — irs. Aydr.; Coceus: Hep.; Kal bich.; Mere.

Rash and spots — Antipyr.; Beil., Bry.; Calad.; Can. s.;
Caust.; Ciunab.; Gels; Lach.; Merc., Nat. m.; Petrol.;
Rhus t., Sep.; Sul.; Thuya.

Swollen, inflamed glans — Acon,; Antipyr.: Apis; Arg. 5
Arn; Ars.; Calad.; Can. s.; Canth.; Cop.; Coral.; Cub.;
Dig.; Gels.; Ham.; Merc. c.; Mere. s.; Nit. ac.; Phos.
ac.; Rhus t.; Sars.; Thuya. See Gonorrhea.

Ulcers, excoriations —- 4rs,; Can. s.; Caust.; Cop.; Coral;
Crot. t.; Hep.; Merc. c.; Merc; Mez.; Nit. oc.; Osm.;
Sep.; Thuva.

PREPUCE — Constriction (paraphimosis, phimesis): Acon.;
ifs: Arn 3 Bell i fan. 8.5 Canth., Caps.; Dig.; Euphras.;

m.; Merc. c., erc. $., Nit. ac. 1. H 3
Henn! hi Sab. Sul; Thuya. , vent; Phos, ac
s -- Ars., Carbo v.; Caust.; Crot. 4; Graph.; Hep.;
Jugl. r.; Mere.; Mez., Nit. o0.3 ; oy Rhus
4; Sars; Thuva. » Nut. oc; Petrol; Phos. ac.; Rhus

Inflammation (balanitis, balano-postitis) — Acon. ; Apis;

Calad.; Can. s- Canth., Cinnab.; Coceus; Con.: Crot. t:

MALE SLXUAL SYSTEM 923

Dig.; Gels, Jacar., Tye: Merc. c; Merc. s.; Nit ac;
Ol sant; Rhus t, Sul: Theva; Viola tr.

Itching — Ars; Canth , Caps, Cimnab.; Con , Graph.; Ign.
Lyc.; Merc. s., Nit. ac; Nux v; Puls; Rhus t=; Sul:
Sul; Thuya; Zing.

Pains — Acon.; Bell.; Berb wv; Calad.: Cans, Canth., Cin-
nab.; Coceus: Con. Cop., Coral.; Ign.; Mere c.; Mere;
Net. ac; Nuxv, Rhus t; Sep: Sul: Thuya.

Ulcers, excoriations -- irs; Can. s.; Caust.: Cop.; Coral.;
Hep.; Agni: Mere., Nit ac, Nux vi Phos, ac: Phot,
Sep.; Sil; Thuyxa.

Varices — Ham.; Lach

Warts, condylomata - \pis; Cimnab., Hep; Kreos.; Lyc;
Nat. m., Nit ac, Phos ac; Sab., Sep.; Staph ; Thuva.

PROSTATE GLAND — Affections in general: isc.; Aloe;
Baros; Caust; Ferr picr., Hep; Hydrang.; Jod.; Kali
iod.; Melast, Mere «., Pareia: Phyt., Pichi; Pier, ac,
Pop. tr.; Sabal, Solid ; Staph: Su! iod ; Thuya; Turnera.

Congestion — Acon ; Aloe; .vin: Bell. Canth., Con.; Cop.;
Cub.: Ferr. p; Gels: Kali bi; Kah iod; Lith. «; OL
sant., Puls.: Sabal, Thuya.

Hypertrophy —- Alfal.; floc, Am. m.; rg. #.; Bar. c.; Benz.
ac.; Cale fl; Cale. 10d.; Chimaph.; Chrom. s.; Cim.;
Con.; Eup. purp.; Ferr. picr., Gels.; Graph; Hep; Hy-
drang.; 1kshug.; Iod.; Kati bich.; Kali br.; Lye.; Ol
sant.: Oxyden.; Pareira; Picr ac; Pip. m.; Pop. t.; Puls.;
Rhus ar.; Sabal; Sars; Senec.; Svulid.; Staph; Sul;
Thiosin.; Thuya; Thyc ; Tritic.

Inflammation (prostatitis): Acute: Acon.; Esc; Aloe;
Apis; Bell.; Bry.; Canth.: Chimaph , Colch.; Cop., Cub.;
Dig.; Ferr. p.; Gels Hep. Jod., Kali br; Kah t0d.;
Merc. c.: Merc ad: Merc., Net ac.; Nitrum; Ol. sant;
Pichi; Picr. ac.: (Culs.; Sabad.; Sabal; Salix n.; Selen.;
Sil; Solid.; Staph.: Svl; Thuya; Tritic.; Ver. v.; Vesic.

Inflammation, chronic - Alum.; 4ur.; Bar. c.; | Brachygl.;
Calad.; Carbon. s3 Cauat.: Clem.; Con.; Ferre. pier. a
Graph.; Hep; Hydrocot.; lod.; Lyc.; Merc. ¢.; erc.;
Nit. ac.; Nux v; Phyt; Puls; Sabad.; s Selen.;
Sep.; Sil; Solid; Steph.; Sul; Thuya; ‘bul. See
Prostatitis.

Weakness (prostatorrhea); discharge during stool, urina-
tion, straining: Acct. ac; -Esc.; Agn; Alum.; Anac.;
Arg. n.; Can. s., Caust.; Chimaph.; Con.; Cub.; Eryng ;
Hep.; Junip.; Kali bich ; Lyc.; Nit. ac.; Nuph.; Nux v.;
Petrol.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Puls.; Sabal; Selen.; Sil;
Sul.; Tereb.; Thuya; Thymol; Turnera; Zinc. m.

PUBIC HAIR — Loss: Merc.; Nit ac.; Selen.; Zine

SCROTUM — Cancer, epithelioma: Ars.; Fuligo; Thuya,

Cold, relaxed — Agn.; Calad.; Cale. c; Caps.; Gels.; Lye;

E. Mere.; Phos. ae. Sen Staph; Sul. See Impotence.

czema — Ant. c.: Canth.; Crot, t.; Graph.; Hep,; Oleand.;
Pe Po Rhus t.; Sal. Pi ,

HYDROCELE—CEdema: <Abrot: <Ampel.; Apis; Ars.; Aur:
Bry.; Calad.: Cale c.; Cale. fl.; Cale. Pt Canth.: Chel;
Cinch.; Con. ; Dig Dulc.; Fluor. ac.; Graph.; Helleb.;
Tod.; Kah tod.; Merc.; Puis., Rhod ; Rhus. t.; Samb.;
Scilla; Selen.; Sil; Spong., Sul
924 MALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Induration — Calad.; Rhus t

Inflammation — -{pis, Ars.; Crot. t.; Euphorb.; Ham.; Rhus
t.; Ver. v. .

Itching — Ambra, Carbo v.; Caust; Crot. t.; Euphorb.;
Graph.; Hep, Nit_ac.; Nux v.; Petrol; Phos. ac.; Rhus
t.; Sars, Selen.; Sil., Thuya; Urt. See Skin.

Heematocele, acute-- Acon.; Arn.; Con; Erig.; Ham; Nux
v.; Puls., Sul.

Hematocele, chronic -—Jod.; Kali tod., Sul.

Nodules, hard, suppurating —- Nit. ac. See Skin.

Numbness) -.-Ambra, Am. c.; Sep — See Itching. .

Pain -—— Am c., Berb, v.; Clem.; lod.; Kali ¢.; Merc; Nux
vj; Thuya. See Inflammation. .

Prurigo— Ant. c.; Aur.; Graph.; Mur. ac.; Nat. s.; Nit. ac.;
Nux v.; Rhus ¢., Staph

Retraction — Plumb. m.

Spots, brown - - Con.

Sweat — Bell.: Calad., Cale. c.; Coral.; “Cupr, ars; Dtose.,
Fagop.; Nat m.; Petrol.; Sep.; Stl.; Sul; Thuya; Uran. n.

Swelling — Apis, .irs, Bell., Brom., Canth., Clem., Con,
Ign.; Nit ac., Puls.; Rhus d.; Rhus t.; Sep. See In-
flammation. :

Tubercles —-Con.; Jod.; Sil; Sul; Teuer,

VARICOCELE --- Acon.; Arn.; Ferr. p.; Ham.; Lach; Nux
v.; Plumb; Puls.; Ruta; Sul.

SEMINAL VESICULITIS — Acute: Acon.; Aise ; Aloe; Bell.;
Canth.; Cub; Ferr. p., Hep.; Kah br.; Merc., Phyt.;
Puls, Selen.; Sil; Ver. v.

Chronic --- ign.; Arg. n.; Aur.; Bar. c.; Calad.; Can. s.;
Cinch.; Clem., Con., Cub.; Ferr. pier.; Graph.: Hep.;
Jod.; Wali br.; Lyc.; Mere.; Nur v.; Ox. ac.; Phos. ac ;
Phyt.; Puls.; Selen.; Sep.; Stl; Staph.; Sul.; Tribui.;
Zine. See Prostatitis.

SEXUAL EXCESSES — Ill effects: Agar.; ,ton., Anac.;
Avena; Calad.; Cale. c.; Cinch.; Con.; Digitaline; Gels. ;
Graph.; Kali br.; Kali p.; Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Phos.;
Sumb.; Selen.; Sil.; Staph.; Tribul. See Impotence, Sper-
matorrhoea.

SPERMA®IC CORD — Pain in general: -Anthem.; Arg. 1.;
Arundo; Aur.; Bell.; Bera. v.; Calc. c.; Cahinea; Can, s.;
Caps; Clem.; Cinch.; Con.; Diosc.; Ham.; Indium; Kali
ec: Lith. c.; Merc. 4 7; Morph.; Nit. ac; Nux v.; OL
an.; Osm ; Ox. ac.; Oxytr ; Payt.; Picr. ac.; Puls; Sars.;
Senec.; Sil.; Spong.; Staph.; Sul; Thlaspi; Thuya; Tus-
sil.; Ver. v.

Drawing — Cahinca; Cale, c.3 Clem.; Con.: Ham.; Indium;
Ol. an.; Js.; Rhod.; Senec.; Staph.; Zinc. m.

Neuralgic— Arg. n.; Aut; Bell; Berb, 2.; Clem; Ham.;
Menthol; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; O+. ac.; Phyt.; Spong.

Swelling — Anthem; Can. s.; Cinch.; Hum., Kah ¢.; Puls.;

ong,

Tendericss — Bell.; Clem.; Ham.; Merc. i. r.; Ox. ac.; Phyt.;

Rhod.: Spong., Tussil.

SPERMATORRHOEA — (sexual debility, deficient physical

wer, nocturnal pollutions): — Absinth.; Agn.; Anac.;
rg. m.; 4rg. .; Arn.; Ars.; Aur.; Avena; Bar. c.;
Calad.; Cate. ¢.; Calc. p.; Camph. monobr.; Can. ind.:
924 MALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Induration — Calad.; Rhus t

Inflammation — -{pis, Ars.; Crot. t.; Euphorb.; Ham.; Rhus
t.; Ver. v. .

Itching — Ambra, Carbo v.; Caust; Crot. t.; Euphorb.;
Graph.; Hep, Nit_ac.; Nux v.; Petrol; Phos. ac.; Rhus
t.; Sars, Selen.; Sil., Thuya; Urt. See Skin.

Heematocele, acute-- Acon.; Arn.; Con; Erig.; Ham; Nux
v.; Puls., Sul.

Hematocele, chronic -—Jod.; Kali tod., Sul.

Nodules, hard, suppurating —- Nit. ac. See Skin.

Numbness) -.-Ambra, Am. c.; Sep — See Itching. .

Pain -—— Am c., Berb, v.; Clem.; lod.; Kali ¢.; Merc; Nux
vj; Thuya. See Inflammation. .

Prurigo— Ant. c.; Aur.; Graph.; Mur. ac.; Nat. s.; Nit. ac.;
Nux v.; Rhus ¢., Staph

Retraction — Plumb. m.

Spots, brown - - Con.

Sweat — Bell.: Calad., Cale. c.; Coral.; “Cupr, ars; Dtose.,
Fagop.; Nat m.; Petrol.; Sep.; Stl.; Sul; Thuya; Uran. n.

Swelling — Apis, .irs, Bell., Brom., Canth., Clem., Con,
Ign.; Nit ac., Puls.; Rhus d.; Rhus t.; Sep. See In-
flammation. :

Tubercles —-Con.; Jod.; Sil; Sul; Teuer,

VARICOCELE --- Acon.; Arn.; Ferr. p.; Ham.; Lach; Nux
v.; Plumb; Puls.; Ruta; Sul.

SEMINAL VESICULITIS — Acute: Acon.; Aise ; Aloe; Bell.;
Canth.; Cub; Ferr. p., Hep.; Kah br.; Merc., Phyt.;
Puls, Selen.; Sil; Ver. v.

Chronic --- ign.; Arg. n.; Aur.; Bar. c.; Calad.; Can. s.;
Cinch.; Clem., Con., Cub.; Ferr. pier.; Graph.: Hep.;
Jod.; Wali br.; Lyc.; Mere.; Nur v.; Ox. ac.; Phos. ac ;
Phyt.; Puls.; Selen.; Sep.; Stl; Staph.; Sul.; Tribui.;
Zine. See Prostatitis.

SEXUAL EXCESSES — Ill effects: Agar.; ,ton., Anac.;
Avena; Calad.; Cale. c.; Cinch.; Con.; Digitaline; Gels. ;
Graph.; Kali br.; Kali p.; Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Phos.;
Sumb.; Selen.; Sil.; Staph.; Tribul. See Impotence, Sper-
matorrhoea.

SPERMA®IC CORD — Pain in general: -Anthem.; Arg. 1.;
Arundo; Aur.; Bell.; Bera. v.; Calc. c.; Cahinea; Can, s.;
Caps; Clem.; Cinch.; Con.; Diosc.; Ham.; Indium; Kali
ec: Lith. c.; Merc. 4 7; Morph.; Nit. ac; Nux v.; OL
an.; Osm ; Ox. ac.; Oxytr ; Payt.; Picr. ac.; Puls; Sars.;
Senec.; Sil.; Spong.; Staph.; Sul; Thlaspi; Thuya; Tus-
sil.; Ver. v.

Drawing — Cahinca; Cale, c.3 Clem.; Con.: Ham.; Indium;
Ol. an.; Js.; Rhod.; Senec.; Staph.; Zinc. m.

Neuralgic— Arg. n.; Aut; Bell; Berb, 2.; Clem; Ham.;
Menthol; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; O+. ac.; Phyt.; Spong.

Swelling — Anthem; Can. s.; Cinch.; Hum., Kah ¢.; Puls.;

ong,

Tendericss — Bell.; Clem.; Ham.; Merc. i. r.; Ox. ac.; Phyt.;

Rhod.: Spong., Tussil.

SPERMATORRHOEA — (sexual debility, deficient physical

wer, nocturnal pollutions): — Absinth.; Agn.; Anac.;
rg. m.; 4rg. .; Arn.; Ars.; Aur.; Avena; Bar. c.;
Calad.; Cate. ¢.; Calc. p.; Camph. monobr.; Can. ind.:
MALE SEXUAL SYSTEM 925

Canth ; Carbon s; Carbo v.; Chlorum; Cim; Cinch;
Cob.; Coca; Coce.; Con; Cupr, m; Dig; Digitaline;
Diosc.; Eryng ; Ferry. br., Formica; Gels.; Gins.; Graph ;
Hyper.; lkshug.; Jod.; Ins; Kah br.; Kali c.; Kah p..
Lyc.; Lyssm: Lupul., Med, Mosch; Nat, m.: Nit. ac:
Nupth, Nuv wv; Onesm., Orchit; Phos. ac.; Phos ; Pier.
ac., Plumb, phos.; Sabal; Sala on, Scutel, Selen. Sep

Sil; Staph, Strych.; Sui; Sul ac; Sumb.; Thuya, Thy
mol, .Titan.; Turnera; Upas ; Ustil.; Yohimb.; Zinc. pur,
Viola tr.

With brain fag, mental torpidity — Phos uc

With debility, bachache, weak legs-—-- Aus.; Cale cz Cale
ps Cinch, Cob.; Con.; Cupr. m3; Dig; Diese; Eryng.;
Formica; Gels.; Kah c, Lye; Med; Nat. p.; Nur w.;
Phos, ac ; Prer. ac., Sars, Selen., Staph, Sul; Turnera;
Zinc. m.

With dreams absent — Anac; Ary. n, Dig., Gels.; Tlep.;
Nat. p; Pier. ac. See Sleep

With dreams amorous -Ambia, Calad, Can ind, Cob;
Con.; Diose ; Lye: Nuw zc, Phos; Sais.; Sclen.; Senec.;
Thymol; Ustil ;. Viola tr. See Sleep

With emissions bloody - Ambra, Cunth; Led. Alere.;
Petrol., Sato.

With emissions diurnal, straining at stool -- -Alum.; Canth.;
Cim.; Cinch., Digntaline; Gels; Kal: br.; Nuph.; Phos.
ac Pnos., Pier. ac, Selen., Viibul, See Prostatosshaa

With emissions, premature -—.4dgn , Bar. c; Calad.; Calc.
c.; Carbo v; Cinch ; Cob.; Con.; Graph., Lye.; Ol. an;
Onosm.; Phos. ac., Phos.; Selen., Sep.; Sul; Titan;
Zine. m.

With emissions profuse, frequent; after coitus ~- Phos. ac

With emissions too slow —Cale ci; Lye; Zine m.

With erections deficient —-Agar.; tyn., Calad., Cah. c.;
Caust.; Con; Ciaph., Hep; Kali_c; Lyc., Mag. c.;
Nit. ac; Nuph; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Selen., Sul.; Zine. m.

With erections painful — Can. ind., Canth.; Ign.; Mere;
Mosch.; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Picr. ac.; Puls.; Sabad.; Thuya.

With irritability, despondency fur, (Cale oc:  Cim,
Cinch.; Con.; Kali br ; Nux v.; Phos.; Selen.; Staph,

With masturbatic tendency — Usti]

With rheumatic pains -- Gins.

With wasting of testes — oda, Sabal

— Remedies in general: Zthiops, Alnus; Anac.;

SYPHILIS — Arg. iod.; Ars.; Ars. br.; Ars. iod.; Ars. m.;

Ars. s, fl; Asaf.; Aur. ars., Aur. iod; 4ur., Aur. m n.;

Aur. mur; Bad; DBapt.; Berb ag., Cale. fi; Calop.;

Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Caust.; Chin. ars.; Cinnad.; Con-

dur.; Coryd.; Echin.; Fluor. ac.; Francisca; Gels.; Graph.;

Guaiac.; Guaco; Hekla; Hep.; Hippoz.; Hydrocot.; Iod.;

Jacar ; Kali bich.; Kali tod.; Kali m.; Kreos.; Lach.; Lonie.;

Lyc.; Merc. aur.; Merc. br.; Merc. c.; Mere. d.; Merc. ¢. fl;

Merc. 1. 1.; Merc. mit.; Merc. pr. rub.; Merc. s.; Mere.

tan.; Merc. v.; Mez.; Nit ac; Osm.; Phos. ac.; Phos.;

Phyt.; Plat.; Plat. mur.; Psor.; Rhus gi.; Sars; Staph.;

Stll.; Sul; Syph.; Theva,
926 MALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Abuse of mercury --f , Calop,, Carbo an; Hep.; Kali
iod.; Nit. ac., Rhus gl; Sul.

Adenopathy -- Had , Carbo an., Graph, Hep.; lod 5 Mere.
1. fu; Merc. 1 1., Merc s, Phyt. See Glands (General-
ities,

Alopecia -- rs, .Aur.; Carbo yv.,  Cinnab.; Fluor. ac.,
Graph.; Hep, Kal 1od.; Lye; Mere. i, f.; Mere.; Nit.
ac.; Phos., Sul Sce Scalp.

Bone and cartilage lesions -— Arg. m.; -tsaf.; Aur., Aur.
mur. Cale. fl.; Carbo v.; Fluor ac, Hep.; Kali bich.;
Kah iod , Wach.; Merc., Ales., Nit. ac.; Phos.; Phyt.;
Sais, Sil, Staph; Still.; Sul. See Bones (Generalities).

Cachexia, anemia, emaciation-- -irs ,  .[:0., Calop ; Carbo
an, Carbo v.; Ferr. 10d.; Ferr. lact.. Jod., Mere.; Sars.

Chancre and primary lesions —-.Ananth., Apis; Arg ou;
\is, Asaf; Cinnab., Coral.; Mep, Jacar, Kali bich.,
Kali 1d, Lyc; Mere. c., Mere 1. fl, Merc. 1 1.3 Mere.
s, Merc. v, Nit. ac., Phos. ac; Phos.; Plat.; Plat, mur.;
sil; Sui

Chancre, gangrenous -- Ars.; [ach

Chancre, hard Carbo an; Kali iod; Mere. i. fy Mere
wr, Mocs

Chancre, indurated, with lardacecus base; deep, round,
penetrating; painful, bleeding; raw, everted edges —
Mere. 8.

Chancre, phagedenic -~ {1s , Cinnab, ydr.; Tach; AWere.
c., Net. ac; Sil.

Chancre, soft —- Coral ; Merc s; Nit. ac; ‘Thuya.

Condylomata - \ur. mur.:  Cinmnmab.; Euphras.; Kali iou ;
Mercuries; Plat. imu... Nat os, Nit. ae., Sab., Staph;
Thuva

CONGENITAL, infantile- 2 thiops; Ars sod. Ars mi; wtur,
Cale. fl.; Cale, tod , Coral; Kali 1od.; Arees.; Mere d ;
Mere os, Merc. 2.) Nit. ac, Psor.: Syph.

Exotoses —- Cale. fl., Fluot. ac; Hekla, Merc. phos.; Phos,
See Bones.

Fever — Baft., Bry.; Chin. s.; Cinch.; Gels ; Merc.; Phyt.

Gummata, nodes -— Asaf., Aur., Berb. aq.; Calc. fl.; Carbo
an.; Condur.; Coryd.; Fluor. ac.; Tod.; Kali bich.; Kal
1od.; Merc.; Mez.; Nit, ac.; PAyt.; Sil.; Staph.; Stith;
Sul., Thuya.

Headache -- Kalt tod, Mere; Sars; Still; Syph. See

ead.

Mucous patches -- ./saf.-_ Aur.;_ Cale.
Condur., Fluor, ac.; Hep., Tod.; Kah bich.; Kali iod.;
Wali m; Merc. c., Mere. d.; Merc. mit., Mere. pr. rub.;
Vere. s, Nit. ac.; Phyt.; Sang.; Staph.; Still; Thuya.

Onychia, paronychia — Anr, c.; Ars.; Graph; Kali iod.;
Vercurics See Whitlow (Skin).

Ouena 5 Aur Kali bich., Still, See Nose.

ervous lesions — 4nac.; Asaf.; Aur.; lod.; Kali iod.; ot
N ers ts Metc. phos.; Mez.: Phos. od. ; Lye;
jocturnal pains (osteocopic) — Asaf.; viur.: Cale. fi.: Cin-
pab.: Cord. : Eup. perf.; Fluor. ac.; Hep alt bok:
Sail, tod.; Lach.; Lyc.; Merc.; Mes.;: Phos.; Phyt.; Sars.;

A.; Calop.; Cinned.;
MALE SEXUAL SYSTEM 927

Rheumatism — (Giuwar , tHekla; Hep.; Kali buh., Kali ind ;
Merc.; Nit. mur ac.; Vhyt.; Still. See Locomotor System.

Secondary stage _— -1u:.: Berb. aq.; Calop ; Cimnab.; Fluor.
ac.; Graph., Guaiac.; lod.; Koel dich, "Kals iod.; Lyc.;
Merc. br; ‘Mere c.; Merc. 1. fi; Mere. 4. r.; Mere, S.5
Merc. v., Nit. ac; Osm.; Phos.; Phyt.; Rhus gl; Sars.;
Sail; Thuya.

Stomatitis, mercurial — Nt. ac.

SYPHILIDES — Bulle: -- Kali iod; Syph.

Eczematous -— Ars.; Graph. ; Krevs.; Merc s.; Petrol.; Phyt.;
Sars. Sce Skin

Papullar — Calop.; Kali iod., Tach.; Mere. c3 Mere. 1 9;
Mere. s,

Pigmentary — Cale 4; Nit. ac.

Psoriasis -—— Asaf.; Graph., Kali bich., Nit ac.: Phos.
Pustular — Ant. t., Asaf; Calop.; Fluor. ac; Hep.; Ign.;
Kah vich ; Wah 10d ; Lach.; Merc. vet.; Mez.; Nit. ac.
Roseole - Kah ind, Mere. co: Mere. i.1 + Merc. s.; Phos;

Rupia Ais.; Berd, ag; Kali od, Vere., Net ac; Phy;
Syp

Spots, copper-colored -- Carbo oan; Carbo v.; Coral.; Kali
iod.; Lye; Mite; Nit. ac; Sul

Squamous —-.frs , \1s. 10d.; Avs. s. fl; Bot y Cranab.: Fluor.
ac., Kah aod; Mere c; Mere 1 fis Mere onit., Merc
pro rub; Mic sg; Mere tan; Nit. ace; Phos., Phyt.;
Sars ; Sal

Tubercular- .f1) . Aut: Carbo an., Fluor ae: Hydrocot.;
Kah wd., Mere 1 +. Still, Thuya.

Uleerations —.\r. 9 4eof.. .\ur.; Aur. mur, Carbo vir Cin
vab > Cistus; condur, Coral.: Fluor, ac. Giaph.; Hep ;
Tod.; Kalt buh. Kalt i0od.; Lach; Tye: Merc. ¢.; Mere.
cy.; Mere. d; Vere. pro rub Mere v.; Mez: Nit. ac.,
Phyt, Sil; Staph; Studi; Sul; Thuya See Mucous
Patches.

Vesicular —-(innch., Mere. c.3 Mere ft. or, Thuya.

Tertiary stage Ar. iod; dur; Aur. mur; Calcareas;
Carbo v.: Cinnab ; Fluor. ac. Graph : : Guanac; Hoang n;
Tod.; Kah bih., Keh ted.; Lyej Mercuries: Mes.; Nt.
ac., Phos, ac.; Phos: Phyt., Psor; Staph.; Sul.; Thuya.

Throat symptoms —- Hor ; 7 Cale fi., € innab., Fluor. ac. Kali
bich.; Lye: Mere c.. Mere aj" Mere a. fll; Mere. ior;
Mere ; Mt. a, Piyt., Stl.

Visceral symptoms — Ars , Ars. iod.; Aui.; Ceanoth.; Hep.;
Kah bich., Wah wd.; Merc. aur; Mero oo, Mere nor;
Mere s, "Mere tan.; Naar ov.

TESTICLES — Abscess: - - Flep.; Mere. ; Sil.

Atrophy -- Agn.: \nt c.; 4rq¢ n.; Aur.. Caps.; Carbon. s.5
Cerens serf.; /ud.; Kali br.; Lyssin: Rhod., Sabal,

Coldness — 4yn , Beib. v3 Dtosc ; Mere , ‘Su. See Impo-
tence.

Cysts —.ips, Con; Graph, Sep.; Sul.

Hernia —— Ar: Liar. ¢ , Cale. c.; Catho v.; Hep; Merc.; Nit.
ac; Sil,, Tiusa.

Hypertrophy hee: Berh ow, Cinnab.; Con.; Ham;
Tod., Merwe . » Ver, Puls. Stigm. See Inflammatory.
928 MALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Induration, hard - Acon; Agn.; Arg. nj; Arn; Aur. ; Par.
c., Bell.; Brom . Calc. fi.; Carbo vi Clem.; Con.; rae ;
lod.; Kali c., Mere; Ox. ac.; Phyt.; Plumb.; Rhod.
Sil; Spong., Sul Sec Inflammation .

Inflammation of epididymis (spididy mitis) — Acon.; _ Apis;
Arg. n.; Bell., Can. s.; Cinch ; Clem.; Gels.; Hom. ; ; Merc.;
Yhyt.i Puls., Rhod.; Sabal, Spong., Sul.; Teucr. scor.;

uya.

Inflammation of testes (orchitis) — Acute: — <fcon., Ant.
t; Arg m.; Arg. n; Bell., Biom 3 Cham.; Chin. 8.3
Cinch ; Clem., Cub.; Gels; Ham.; Kali s.; Merc.; Nit.
ac; Nux v.; Phyt.; 'Polyg.; ; Puls.; "Rhod.; Spong.; Teucr.
seor.; Ver. v.

Inflammation, chronic-- Agn; Aur., Bar c.; Cale. tod.;
Cinch.: Clem.; Con.; Gels; Hep., Uyper; lod; Kal
tod., Lyc., Mere; Nit. ac.; Phyt.; Puls.; Rhod.; Rhus
t, Spong.; Sul.

Inflammation, metastatic — Puls ; Staph.

Inflammation, syphilitic -— Aur., Kah 1tod.; Mere i. r.

PAINS — In general: 4Acon., Agn; Aps, Arg. m; Arg 4n.;
Aur., Bell.; Berb. v.; Brom, Cahinea; Can s.; Caps.;
Cereus bon; Cham ; Clem., Con., Erod.; Gins.; Ham ;
Hydr.; Ign.; lod; Kali c.; Lycop.; Lye; Mere i, r.;3
Merc.; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Ox. ac , Oxytr., Papaya; Phos.
ac; Pict. ac.; I’uls.; Rhod., Sahx nj; Sep.; Spong.;
Staph.: Sul.; 7huva.

Aching, dragging, relaxed Apis. iw.; Can s.; Clem.;
Con., Tod.; Nit. ac; Nux vj; Phos. ac.; Puls.; Spong.;
Staph.; Sul.; | Thuya.

Bruised, crushed, squeezed, cuntiactive pain -- 4con i Arg.
m, Argon, Aur,, Cham.: Carbo v.. Clem.; Con., Gins.;
Ham., Kah c.; Nit. ac.; Ol, ane; Ox. ac; Puls ; Rhod.,
Sep.; "Spong.; Staph.

Neuralgic (testalgia)-— Arg. ni: adur., Bell; Berd. wv;
Clem , Col.; Con.; Euphras ; Ham.; Tgn.; : Mag. p.; Merc.;
Nux v., Ol. an.; ; Ox. ac, Oxytr.; Puls.; Spong.; Ver. v.; 3
Zine, m.

Sensitive, sore, tender-- 4ccn., Apis; Rell; Berb. v.;
Brom.; Clem + Con.* Cop. ; ; Ham.; Indwm; Mere. i. 1.3
Phos. ac.; Puis.; Rhod.; Sep.; Spong.; Staph.

RETRACTION — Arg. n.; Aur.; ; Bell.; Brom.; Camph.; Cinch.;
Giem., Col.; Euphras.; Nit. ac.; Ol. an. ; Puls.: Rhod.;

ine

Swelling — 4: 01 ; Agn ; Apis; Arg. m.; Arg .; Arn.; Ars.;
tur; Aur. mon; Bell; Brom.; Cale. p.; Carbo v.;
Clem.; Con.; Cop.; Dig.: Graph.; Ham., lod; Keli c,
lve.; “Merc. c.; Merc.; Millef.; Ocimum; Phos. ac.; Puls.;
Rhod ; Spong., Staph; Tussil.; Ver. v., Zine. See In-
flammation.

TUBERCULOSIS -~ .4vr.; Bac. test.;  Mere., | Scrophul.;
Spong: Tener, scor.

Tuberculosis, pseudo -- 4ur.; Cale. c.; Hep.: Merc. 8. 15
Sil, Spong.; Sul.

Tumors (sarcocele) ---.4ur.:; Cale. ¢.;_Clem.; Mere i. or 3
Puls.; Rhed . Sls Spona.; Tub. See Hypertrophy.

Undescended testicle in boys -— Thyr.
FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

COITION — Fainting during: Murex: Orig.; Plat.

Coition, hemorrhage after — Kreos.; Nit. ac.; Sep.

Coition, painful — Apis; Arg mn; Bell.; Rerb. v.: Ferr.;
Kreos.; Lye; Lyssin; Plat; Sep.; Staph See Vaginis-
mus,

CONCEPTION, difficult (sterility) —Agn., <Alet.: Am. c.;
Aur. m.; Bar. m.; Bor., Cale. ¢; Can ind.; Caul.; Con.;
Eup purp; Gossyp.; Graph , Helon.; Jod., Lecith ; Med.;
Nat. m.; Nat. p.; Phos., Plat.; Sabal.

Conception easy — Merc.; Nat. m

DESIRE, diminished or lost---ign., Am. c.; Berb. v.;
Canst.; Terr. mur.; Graph; Helon.; Jgn., Nat. m.;
Onesm ; Plumb ; Sep.

Desire, increased (nymphomania) Ambra; ‘ster , Arundo;
Bufo, Cale. ¢, Cale. p.. Camph, Canth.; Cim ; Cinch.;
Coca, Dule; Ferrula; Grat.; Hvyos., Kah br; Kal p.;
Kieos.; Lach; Lil. ¢, Mosch.: Murer, Nux v.; Orig.;
Phos; Pricer ac.; Plat., Raph: Robin.; Sab.; Sil; Stram.;
Strych ; ar. h., Wer. a., Xerophyl., Zinc.

Desire, suppressed, ill effects — Con., Sabal.

GONORRHOEA — 4con.; Alumcn; Apis, Arg. n., Can. s;
Canth.; Cop: Cub.; Jacor: Kreos.; Mere. ¢1. Mere, OL
sant., Petros.; Puls, Sep., Sul; Thuya. See Leucor-
rhea, Vaginttis, Vulvitis.

LEUCORRHOEA — Remedies in general: Agar.; Agn.; Alet.;
Alnus; Alum , cimbra, Am. c.: Am. m.. Arg. m5 Ars.;
Asaf.; Aur. mur.; dur om. n, Baros.; Bar. mur.; Bell.;
Ror., Bow; Cale. c.; Cale. p.; Canth., Carbo v.; Coaul.;
Caust ; Cham.; Cim; Crich., Coce., Con.; Cop.; Dictam.;
Eucal., Eupion; Ferr. iod.; Frax. am., Gels; Graph;
Hedvoma: Helon., Welonm; Hep: Hydr.; Hydrocot.;
Ign; Tod; Jacar.; Jonosia; Aah: bich.; Kali c., Kali m;
Noah s.; Kreos, Wach; Li. t, Lee, Mug. co, Mag. m,
Merc. pr. rub; Alere , Mez., Murex: Naja, Nat. m ;
Nat. s.; Nit. ac.; Nux vii Ong. Ova ¢.; Pall.; Pier. ac.;
T'sor.;) Pulexs Puls.; Sab.. Sec.; Sep.; Sit.; Spiranth.;
Stann., Sul.; Sul. ac: Thlaspy; Theva; Talia; Trill;
Vib. op.; Xanth.; Zinc. m.

TYPE — Acrid, corroding, burning: — Esc.; Alum.; Am. c¢.;
Aral; Ars Ars, aod; Aur.; Aur. mur.; Bor.; Bov.;
Cale, ¢.;_ Cale. 10d.; Carb. ac.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.;
Cham., Con.; Cop.; Eucal.; Ferr, br.; Graph.; Guaco;
Helonin, Hep.; Hydr., Ign.; Jod.; Kreos.; Lach.; Lil t.;
Med.; Merc, Nut, m, Nit. ac., Phos.; Puls.; Sab;
Sep; Stl; Sul, Sul. ac.; Thasp,

Albuminous, slimy, mucous — Agn,; Alum.; Ambra; Am.
m.: Berb. vy Bor., Rov.; Cale. c.: Calc. p.; Ferr. iod.;
Graph.; Hematox; Hydr.; Inula; Tod.; Kali m; Kah s.;
Rreos : Mag ¢; Mcz.; Plat; Puls; Sul. ac.; Thuve;

ilia.
930 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Blackish — Cinch | Thlasps. .

Bland— Bor.; Calc. p, upion; Frax. am, Kali m.; Puls.;
Stann. .
Bloody— Arg n.; Ars.; Bufo; Calc. ars.; Carbo v.; Cinch. ;
Coec.; Kreos Merc. c., Merc., Murex; Nit. ac.; Nux m.;

Sep; Spiranth.; Sul ac; Thlaspi.

Brown - - Aisc.; Am. m; Kreos.; Lil. t., Nit. ac.; Sec.; Sep.

Flesh colored, like washing of meat, non-offensive--- Nit. ac.

Greenish —- Bov., Carbo v.; Kah s., ach; Mere; Murex;
Nat. s.; Nit. ac; Phos.; Pulex; Puls.; Sep.; Sul.; Thuya.

Gushing —-Cocc , Hupion; Graph.; Sep. See Profuse.

Intermittent - -Con,; Sul.

Itching —— Ambra, Anac; Cale. ¢.. Cale tod.; Carb. ac;
Cinch ; Hedeoma; Helonin; Kreos, Merc., Sep. See
Pruritus.

Lumpy -- Ant. c., Hydi.; Psor

Milky, white -- Aut., Pell; Bor., Cale. ¢, Cale tod , Cale
p; Canth; Carbo v; Con; Cop.; Ferr. m.; Graph;
Hematox.; Tod; Kali m., Naja; Ova t.. Paraf.; Puls,
Sep., Sil; Stann., Sul.

Offensive --—- Aral.; Ais; Bufo; Carb. ac.: Cinch ; Eucal.;
Guaco, Helon., Hep.; Kreos.; Merc.; Med.; Nat. ¢.;
Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Fsor.; Pulex; Robin; Sab.; Sang.;
Sanic.; Sec.; Sep., Thiaspi; Ustil.

Painful Sil; Sul. See Concomitants.

Painlese — .\m. m.; Puls.

Profuse ~~ lum.; Ambra; Am. c; -frg. n., -lrs.; Aur.s Bor.;
Cale. c., Cale. p 3 Caul.; Caust.; Con.; Fluor, ac.; Graph,
Guaco; Helonin; Hydr.; Hydrocot.; Iod.; Kreos; Lach ;
Lil. t., Mag. os., Were, Nat a; Ora ts Phos: Pulex;
fais Sep, Sil; Stann.; Syph.; Vhasp.; Theva; Tila;
rill,

Purulent, staining, yellow --.Esc ; ify; Alumen: Arg. n;
Ars.; Aur. mur.; Por, Cale. oy Can. s, Carbo an.;
Ceanoth.; Cham., Cinch... Eupon; Faaop.:  Helonin,
Fivdr.; Ign.; Kali bich.; Kah s; Kreos; Wach.; Lil te
Lyc.; Mere. 1 fl: Mere; Nat. s; Pulex: Puls., Sep.;
Stann., Sul; Vrilhs Ustet

Thick - «Ese; Aur; Rov., Canth,; Carbo v.; Helonin; FHydr.;
Jod., Kali m.; Kreos ; Mag. 5.; Mere.: Murex; Nit. ac;
Puls., Sab., Sep.; Thuya.

Thin, watery --- 4m c.: es ; Bell,; Bufo; Cham: Frax. am;
Graph., Kali s., Wreos. Lil. ty Merc. ¢ Mere; Naja;
Nat. m.; Nit. ac, Plat.; Puls.; Sep., Syph.; Sul

Viscid, stringy, tough -— Zisc.; dlum., Asar.; Bow: Dic
tam; Ferr. br.; Giaph.; Hydr.; Iris; Kal bich., Kah m.;
Nit. ac; Pall., Phyt.; Sab.; Trill.

OCCURRENCE — MODALITIES — After coitus: Nai. c.
After menses and between periods—-Esc: {lum ; Bor;

Rew; Cale. eo: Coce.; Con: Eupion, Graph., Wydr.;

Tews, Kal. Aveos., Mag. im; Nit. ac, Phos. ac. Puls.;
dal, Sep. Thlaspi; Nanth.

ane stool -— Mag. 1.
ter urination -- fm. m.. Con., Kreos : May .; Niccol.;
Plat; Ser Si. Ss Mag m.; Niccol

At climaxis —- Voor: Sang
FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM 931

At night - Ambra, Caust, Verc., Nit. ac

Before menses — «I/um, Bar oc. Bor; Bow, Cale. c.3
Cale. p.; Carbo v., Con, Graph, Kreos.; Pier. ac; ads.,
Sep., ‘Thiasps.

Better from washing with cold water — .\lum

From motion, walking -oz., Carbo an; Euphorb. pi).;
Graph.; Helonin, .dag. m, Tiha

From rest -— Fagop. .

From sitting, relieved by walking ---Cact.; Cocc ; Cycl

From urine, contact of Kreos , Mere., Sul.

In daytime - -.\Jum.; Plat.

In infants, little girls —-.Isperula, Cale oc; Can. s.; Carb.
ac; Caw’, Cima, Cub, Hvdi , Mere 1 fl, Mere; Miallef ,
fiuls., Sep, Syph

In old, weak women —-.\rs.; //clon , Nit ac.; See.

In pregnant women - Cocc, Kali cj Sep

Instead of menses —-C orc , Graph; Jod., Nuv m.; Phos.;
Puls; Senee , Sep., Nanth.

CONCOMITANTS — Abdominal pain, colic preceding and at-
tending: «lm. om, Aral; .irs; Beil; Cale. «3 Con.;
Graph , Ham; Hematox, Ign.; Lye.; May. m., Nat. 3
Sep., Sil; Sul., Syph.

Backache and weak feeling, preceding and attending —
4ise., Enpion, Graph; Helon., Kali bich ; Kreos ; Mag
si Murex; Nat. chlor.: Nat. m., Ova t.; Poor , Stann.

Cervical erosion, bleeding easily — Alum.; Alnus, Arg. n;
Dictam.; Hydr , Hydvocot.; Nals bich.

Debility, weakness — A!ci., Alum., Calc. ¢.; Carbo an.;
Cau); Caust; Cimeh: Coce., on. suaco; Helon.;
Helomm:; Hydr; Arees., Onosm.; Phos.; /sor.; Puls.;
Sep.; Stann.

Diarrhea —~ Puls.

Feeling, as if warm water running - Lor.

Feeling of fulness, heat, relieved by cold water —- Acon.

Hemorrhage, obstinate, intermittent — Kreos.

Hepatic derangement, costiveness -- Ilydr.

History of abortion -— .AJct.; Caul: Sab.; Sep

Hysterical spasm in uterus and abdomen — Mag m.

Mental symptoms -- Murex.

Metorrhagia following — Mag m

Pruritus vulve -— Agur.; Alum.; Ambra; Anac.; Cale. o;
Fagop.; Helon., Hyds.; Kreos.; Merc; Sep.

Relaxation of genitals — Agn.; Caul., Sec.; Scp

Spasmodic contraction of vagina — Aur, m. no. .

Urinary irritation — Berb. v.; Erig.; Kreos.; Sep.

MAMMAE — Abscess: Bry ; Crot t.; Graph.; Hep.; Phos.;
Phyt.; Si; Sul, See Mastitis, Pi Phos.;

Atrophy — Chimaph.; Cen.; lod.; Kali iod.; Nit. ac.; Onosm;

abal.

Cancer — Arg. n.; Ars. iod.; Ars.; Aster.; Bad.; Bapt.; Bar
iod.; Brom.; Bry ; Calc. iod.; Carbo an.; Carcinos.; Cie;
Clem.; Condur.; Con.; Gahum; Graph.; Hep.; Hoang
nan.; Hydr.; Kah t0d.; Kreos.; Lach; Phos.: Plumb.
iod.; Psor.; Sang.; Scirrhin.; Semperv. t.; Sil; Sul;
Tar. c.; Thuya. See Tumors,
932 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Cancer, bleeding Hoang nan.;  Kicos.; Lach; Phos.;
Sang.; Thuya

Cancer, scirrhous Are; Carbo an.; Condur.; Con.; Hydr.;
Kreos.; Lapis alb ; Phyt , Scirrhin.; Sil.

Induration, hardness—- Alumen;  <Ananth.; — -(ster., Bell.;
Biv, Bufo, Cal fiz, Carbo an; Carbo v; Cham; Cis-
tus; Clem, Con, Graph.; Iod, WKreos.; Lac c; Lapis
alb.; Merc.; Nit. ac.; Phyt., Plumb. 10d ; Plumb m.

Inflammation (mastitis) -- deon.; Ant. t.; Apis; Arn.; Ars.;
Bell., Fry, Cale 3 Cham, Cistus; Com; Crot t.
Fert. p, Galega, Graph; Hep; Lac c.; Tvach.; Mere.;
Phell, Phos, Phyt, Plant.; Puls.; Sabad; Sth; Sul.
See Pain, Swelling

NIPPLES — Burning, itching: <!gar., A\1tundo, .fis_, Castor.;
crt 7, Lye, Onosm., Org , Petrol; Puls ; Sil; Sul.

Cracks, fissures, ulcerations - Ananth; Arn.; Ars; Aus.
sal, Cale. ox , Calend ; Carbo v ; Castor.; Caust.; Cham.;
Condur, Con., Crot. t, Eup ar., Gahum, Geran.:
Graph., Ham, Tlep, Hippom.; Mere; Nit. ac., Paconia;
hell., Phos; Phyt., Ratanh.; Sep ; Sil.; Sul. See Sore-
ness

Inflamed, tender to touch — Cham.; Ilelon.; Phy!

Retraction — Carbo an; Hydr.; Lapis alb; Nux m3; Sars,
tbe

Soreness, tenderness — Apium = gr.; Arn.» Ror; Calend.;
Castor.; Cham.; Cistus; Con; Crot t.; Eup. ar.; Graph.;
Ham.; elon; Hep.; Wydr.; Tae c.; Ocimum; Orig ;
Varat.; Phell.; Phos.; Phyt., Racanuh., Sang.; Sil; Sui;

me,

PAIN IN BREASTS (mastodynia) --- .Acon.; Apis, Arg. n.;
efster., Au. sul, Bell., Brom, Iiry., Cale ¢ , Carbo an.;
Cnam ; Chonaph , Con., Con., Cotyled.; Croc.; Crot. t.;
diep., Uydr , Hyper ; Lac c; Lach.; Lect. ac ; Lapis alb.;
fepid.; Med.; Mere. per.;  Merc., Murex, Nat. m;
Onosm.; Pall, Phell.; Phos., Phyt ; Phonb. iod.; Plumb.
m » Polyg; Piun. sp; Psor.: Puts.; Sang.; Sit.; Sumb.;
ATi ten

Pain, inframammary — Cim., Puls.; Kan. b., RKaph.; Sumb.;
Ustl , Zine. m

Pain relieved by supporting heavy mamme -- Bry.; Lac c ;

yt.

SWELLING -Ananth., etsaf.: .doter., Aur. sul; Bell; Bellis;
Bry.; Castor; Dule.; Graph.; Helon.; Mere. per.; Mere.;
Onosm ; Phos, /’Ayi., Psor.; Puls.; Solan. ol.; Urt. See
Mastitis.

Tenderness, soreness —— Arg. n.; Aster.; Bell; Bry.; Caic.
¢; Carbo an.; Cham; Clem; Con.; Dule.; Heion.; Hep;
Tod.; Kali m.; Lac.c.; Lach ; Med.; Merc.; Onosm.; Phyt.;
Plumb.; Radwm; Sabal; Syph. See Pain.

TUMORS, nodosities -— Ars. 1od.; Aster.; Bell.; Berb. aq.;
Brom. ; Bry.; Calend.; Cale. ¢.; Cale. f.; Calc. s0d.; Carbo
an.; Chamn.; Chimaph.; Clem.: Condur.: Con.; Ferr. iod.;
Gnaph.; Graph.: Hehla, A’vdr.; Iod.; Lach.; Lapis alb.;
Lyc.; Merc. +. fl.; Murex; Nit. ac.; Phos.; Phyt.; Plumb.
sod.; Psor ; Puls.; Sab.; Sang.; Scirrin.; Scrophul.; Sil;
Thuya; Thyr, Tub See Cancer, Swelling, Inflammation.

FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTFM 933

Ulceration - Aster.; Calend; Clem; Hep.; Merc.; Paonia;

Phos.; Phyt., Sil

MASTURBATION — In children, due to pruritus vulv.
Calad.; Oriwg., Zine, m

MENOPAUSE — Climacteric period; change of life; Remedies
in general: Acon; Agar; Alet.; 4myl; Aquil.; Arg. n.
Bell; Bellis; Vin. acy Cact., Cale ars; Cale ©, Caps
Carbo v, Cui cim; Coce, Coff.; Con., Cych: Ferr.
Gels; Glon,; Graph.; Wolon.; Iyn.; Jabor., Kali br.
Kah c., Kreos., Lach, Mag. c; Manem., Mures; Nu.
m., Nuva, Oopher.. Pluinb; Pils ; Sang.; Semperv. t.
Sep., Sud, Sul ac: Ther.; Ustil, Val; Vipera; Viscum
Zine, wv.

Anxiety —Acon.; .dinyl

Breasts enlarged, painful -- Sang.

Burning in vertex —~ ach., Nux v.; Sang, Sud.

Congestions — \con, .fmyl, Cale. ¢, Clon., Lach; Sang ;
Sep.; Sud, Ustil.

Cough, burning in chest, periodical neuralgia Sang.

Earache -— Sang.

Fainting spells --Cim; Kerr, Glon., Lach., Nux mj Sep.;
Sul, Trill.

Fatigue, persistent tiredness, fagged womb — Bellis.

Fatigue without cause, muscular weakness, chilliness —

ale oc.

Flooding — Aloe; Amyi; Apoc ; .frg_om.; Arg. nj; Aur. mur,
Calc c. Caps; Cim, Cinch., Ferr.; Hydrastinin; Kal
br.; Lach; Nit. ac; Pleonb., Sab.; Sang.; Sedum; Sep.
Thiaspi, Trill.; Usti’; Vinca See Metrorrhagia.

Flushings -<fcon., cimyl; Bell; Bor. ac.; Cale. 3 Cim.
Dig.; Ferr ; Glon , 4gn ; Jabor.; Kali br.; Kali c.; Lach.
Mang. ac., Niccol s, Nux v.; Oophor.; Phos. ac.; Puiloc.
Sang.; Sedum, Sep; Stront.; Sul.: Sul. ac; Sumbul
Tub ; Ustil.; Val.; Ver. v.; Vespa; Vinca; Zine. v.

Globus hystericus --- \myl; Lach., Val.; Zinc. v

Headache - -Imyl, VCact.; Com, Cinch.; Cyprip.;  Ferr.
Glon , Ign.; Lach , Sang.; Sep.; Stront. c.

Hysterical tendencies Tans Val; Zine. v

Inframammary pains — Cim.

l.iver disorders — Card. m.

Mental depression or irritability —-Cim.; Ign.; Kali br.;
Lach., Manemn.; Val; Zine v

Nervous erethismy — Arg. n.; Cim.; Coff; Jgn.; Kali br.;
Lach.; Oophor.; Ther.; Val; Zine. v.

Pains in uterus -.\gar = Cim  Coce.; Lach.; Puls; Sep.

Palpitation — Amyl; Cale. avs.; Ferr.; Glon.; Kali br.; Lach;

P Sep.; Trill val. Rell. 1 Jab,

erspiration, profuse — Bell.; ep.; Jabor ; Lach.; N t
Sep.; Tilia; Val. ux vi

Pruritus — Calad.

Salivation -— Jabor.

Sexual excitement -— Mancin.; Murex.

Sinking at stomach —Cim.; Hydroc. ac.; Ign.; Sep.

Ulcers, superficial, sores, on lower limbs — Polyg.

Vertigo, tinnitus — Glon.; Lach.; Ustil.

Weakness Helon.; Lach; Sep. ‘
934 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

MENSTRUATION — TYPE: AMENORRHOEA: Remedies in
general: -fcon , Alet.: Alnus, dpis, Apoc.; Ars.; Avena;
Bell.; Bry.: Cah c, Can. s.3 Cau, Caust.; Cim.; Con.;
Cyel., Dule; Euploas., Ferr. ars.; Ferr. m.; Ferr. red.;
Gels: Glon . Graph., Hedeoma; Helleb.; Helon.; Jonosia;
Kah c¢ 3 Kali perm ; Til tj Mang. ac; Merc. per.; Nat.
m., Nux v., Op; Ova t; Parth.; Phos. ac.; Pinus lamb.;
Plat.; Plumb. Polyg.; Puls., Sec; Senec.; Sep.; Spong.;
Sul, Tanac; Thyr.; Ustil; Xanth,

Before the proper age — Calc. c , Cale. p; Carbo v.; Cinch.;
Coce.; Sab; Sil; Ver a.

Delayed, first menses - Calc. c. Calc p; Ferr; Graph,
Kah c., Kah perm. Polyg.; Puls, Senec., Sep.; Turnera.

Delayed, tardy flow — Acon.; <Alet.;  Caust.; Cim.; Con.,
Cupromy tule: Kuphras.: Herr cit) strych., Gels., Glou.;
Gosyp., Graph, Healleb, fod , Jonosia; Kal: c.; Kali m.;
Ahab p, Wahs.. Wag « : Nat. m.; Nux m.; Phos.; Pulex;
Puls, Radium; Sabad + Sence ; Sep; Sul; Thasp.; Val;
Tab of, Zine.

Intermittent -Coccus; Ferr. m.; Areos ; Lac ¢.; Mag. 53
Veh. Marex, Nua v3; Phos.; Puls, Sabad.; Sep.; Sul.;
Xanth,

Irregular -- Ambra, Caul.. Cim.; Cocc., Cyel.; Graph; Jods
Jonosia; lal t 3; Nur om; Nux w.; Phos.; Piserdia; Puls 5
Radium; Sec., Senec.: Sep; Sul

Protracted - .\con.; Cale s.; Caust; Con.; Crot.; Cupr. m:
Ferr.; Graph.; Iod; Kreos: Lic, Nat. mj; Nux m.; Nux
v.; Phos.; Rhus t.

Scanty flow — let, sth, Ayis, Bab. v.; Bor.; Canth ;
Caul, Caust; Cam; Coce, Con.; Cyel.; Dule ; uphras.;
Ferr. cit. strych.; Gels., Graph ; Ign; Kah c.; Kali p.;
Kah s.; Lach.; Lamina; Lil. t : Afag. c.; Mang ac.; Mel;
Merc per.: Nat. m.; Nux v.; Ol an.; Phos., Plat.; Puls.;
Sang; Senec., Sep., Sil; Sul; Val; Vib. opf.; XNanth.
See Dysmenorthoa.

Suppressed -- sficon.; Apis; Bell., Bry.; Cale ¢; Ceanoth.;
Cham . Chionanth.; Cim., Cen., Croc.; Cupr.; Cycl; Dule ;
Feir., Gels; Glon.; Graph.; Helon.; lgn.; Kali co; Kas
m.; Jaach ; Leonorus; Nat m.; Nux m., Op.; Pod.; Puls ,
Puig, nut., Senec.; Sep.; Sul.; Tanac.; Taxus; Tub.; Fer.
w., Zine.

Suppressed, from anemic conditions — Ars. 1od.; — Ars.;
Caust.: Ferr. ars; Ferr. cit. strych.; Ferr. red.; Graph.;
Aa c.. Kali perm.; Kah p.; Mag. ac; Nat. m.; Ova t3
Puls., Senee.

Suppressed, from cold water, exposure, chilling — Acon.;
int. c. Bell.; Cale. c.; Cham.; Cim; Con., Dude., Graph;
Lac c. Lac d., Puls.; Rhus i.; Sul; Ver. v.; Kanth.

Suppressed, from disappointed love — Helleb.

Suppressed, from fright, vexation — Act. sp.; 4con.; Cim.;

Suspee: Lye; Op. Ver. a
ppressed, from transient, localized, uterine congestion
followed by chronic ansemic state — Sabal. eewsone

Suppressed, in emigrants — Bry.; Plat.

Suppressed, with asthma — Spong.
934 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

MENSTRUATION — TYPE: AMENORRHOEA: Remedies in
general: -fcon , Alet.: Alnus, dpis, Apoc.; Ars.; Avena;
Bell.; Bry.: Cah c, Can. s.3 Cau, Caust.; Cim.; Con.;
Cyel., Dule; Euploas., Ferr. ars.; Ferr. m.; Ferr. red.;
Gels: Glon . Graph., Hedeoma; Helleb.; Helon.; Jonosia;
Kah c¢ 3 Kali perm ; Til tj Mang. ac; Merc. per.; Nat.
m., Nux v., Op; Ova t; Parth.; Phos. ac.; Pinus lamb.;
Plat.; Plumb. Polyg.; Puls., Sec; Senec.; Sep.; Spong.;
Sul, Tanac; Thyr.; Ustil; Xanth,

Before the proper age — Calc. c , Cale. p; Carbo v.; Cinch.;
Coce.; Sab; Sil; Ver a.

Delayed, first menses - Calc. c. Calc p; Ferr; Graph,
Kah c., Kah perm. Polyg.; Puls, Senec., Sep.; Turnera.

Delayed, tardy flow — Acon.; <Alet.;  Caust.; Cim.; Con.,
Cupromy tule: Kuphras.: Herr cit) strych., Gels., Glou.;
Gosyp., Graph, Healleb, fod , Jonosia; Kal: c.; Kali m.;
Ahab p, Wahs.. Wag « : Nat. m.; Nux m.; Phos.; Pulex;
Puls, Radium; Sabad + Sence ; Sep; Sul; Thasp.; Val;
Tab of, Zine.

Intermittent -Coccus; Ferr. m.; Areos ; Lac ¢.; Mag. 53
Veh. Marex, Nua v3; Phos.; Puls, Sabad.; Sep.; Sul.;
Xanth,

Irregular -- Ambra, Caul.. Cim.; Cocc., Cyel.; Graph; Jods
Jonosia; lal t 3; Nur om; Nux w.; Phos.; Piserdia; Puls 5
Radium; Sec., Senec.: Sep; Sul

Protracted - .\con.; Cale s.; Caust; Con.; Crot.; Cupr. m:
Ferr.; Graph.; Iod; Kreos: Lic, Nat. mj; Nux m.; Nux
v.; Phos.; Rhus t.

Scanty flow — let, sth, Ayis, Bab. v.; Bor.; Canth ;
Caul, Caust; Cam; Coce, Con.; Cyel.; Dule ; uphras.;
Ferr. cit. strych.; Gels., Graph ; Ign; Kah c.; Kali p.;
Kah s.; Lach.; Lamina; Lil. t : Afag. c.; Mang ac.; Mel;
Merc per.: Nat. m.; Nux v.; Ol an.; Phos., Plat.; Puls.;
Sang; Senec., Sep., Sil; Sul; Val; Vib. opf.; XNanth.
See Dysmenorthoa.

Suppressed -- sficon.; Apis; Bell., Bry.; Cale ¢; Ceanoth.;
Cham . Chionanth.; Cim., Cen., Croc.; Cupr.; Cycl; Dule ;
Feir., Gels; Glon.; Graph.; Helon.; lgn.; Kali co; Kas
m.; Jaach ; Leonorus; Nat m.; Nux m., Op.; Pod.; Puls ,
Puig, nut., Senec.; Sep.; Sul.; Tanac.; Taxus; Tub.; Fer.
w., Zine.

Suppressed, from anemic conditions — Ars. 1od.; — Ars.;
Caust.: Ferr. ars; Ferr. cit. strych.; Ferr. red.; Graph.;
Aa c.. Kali perm.; Kah p.; Mag. ac; Nat. m.; Ova t3
Puls., Senee.

Suppressed, from cold water, exposure, chilling — Acon.;
int. c. Bell.; Cale. c.; Cham.; Cim; Con., Dude., Graph;
Lac c. Lac d., Puls.; Rhus i.; Sul; Ver. v.; Kanth.

Suppressed, from disappointed love — Helleb.

Suppressed, from fright, vexation — Act. sp.; 4con.; Cim.;

Suspee: Lye; Op. Ver. a
ppressed, from transient, localized, uterine congestion
followed by chronic ansemic state — Sabal. eewsone

Suppressed, in emigrants — Bry.; Plat.

Suppressed, with asthma — Spong.
FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM 935

Suppressed, with cerebral congestion — Acon.; Apis; Bell.;
Bry.; Cale. c ; Cim.; Gels, Glon.; Sep.; Sul.; Ver. vu.
Suppressed, with congestion to chest - Acon.; Calc.  c.;

ep.

Suppressed, with cramps to chest —Cupr. m

Suppressed, with delirium, mania — Stram.

Suppressed, with dropsy -— Apis; Kali c. .

Suppressed, with fainting spells, drowsiness— Kali c.; Nua
m.,

Suppressed, with gastralgia or spasms — Cocc

Suppressed, with jaundice — Chionanth.

Suppressed, with neuralgic pains about head, face -~- (..'/s

Suppressed, with ophthalmia — Puls

Suppressed, with ovaritis — 4con ; Cim.

Suppressed, with pelvic pressure, ovarian tenderness —

at cs Bell.

Suppressed, with pelvic tenesmus — Pod.

Suppressed, with rheumatic pains - Sry . Gim; Rhus t.

Suppressed, with vicarious bleeding -Fry.; Crot; Dig;
Erig : Eupion: Ferr , Ham.; Ipec.; Kali ¢; Lach; Nat.
s; Phos., Puls., Sabad ; Sang., Sener, Sil; Sul; Trill;
Ustil

DYSMENORRHOEA — Remedies in general; Acctan ; Acon.;

Am. acet; .fpioline, \pis, Apum er; Aqui; Atrop.;

Avena; acl, Bor, Bov, Brom; Biy.; Cact.; Cale. ¢3

Canth.; Castoreum, Caul, Cham., Crm.; Coce ; Coff.;

Collins : Col. Croce; Cupr. m., Dule; Epiph.;  Ferr.;

Ferr p. Gels, Gion. Graph. Gossyp.; Graph ; Guarac. ;

Ham., Uelon. Hyos.: Ign, Kali perm.; Vach.; Lilt;

Macrot., May. c, Mag. m.: Mag p., Merc; Millef.;

Morph: Nux om: Nux v.; Op; Plat; Puls; Rhus t;

Sab.; Sang: Santon: Yec.; Senec.. Sep.; Stram.; Thyr.;

Ustil ; Ver. a, Ver. vi, Vb. op; Vib. pri; Xanth.; Zine,

TYPE — Irregular, every two weeks, or so: Bot., Calr.  c.;

Cale. p.; Croc., Ferr. p; Helon.; Ign.; Mag. s.; Mez.;
Murex; Nit ac.; Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Phyt.; Sab.;
Sec.; Thlaspi; Trili

Irregular — Am. c.; Rell , Piy.: Cale. c.; Caul., Crim.; Cocc.;
Cycl.; Guaiac., Inula; Mag s; Murex; Nat. m; Nuyx v.;
Physost.; Puls., Sec; Senec.; Sep. Sce Amenorrheea.

Membranous — .irs., Bell; sor.; Brom.; Bry ; Calc. acet.;
ale. ¢.; Cham.; Coliims.; Con,; Guaiac , Heliotr.; Lac
c.; Mag. p.; Merc; Rhus t.; Sud; Ustil.; 1b. op.

Nonobstructive, from ovarian irritation - .ifis, Bell.; Ham ;
Xanth.

Nonobstructive, from uterine irritation = ( /iam ; Coff., Nit.
ac.; Xanth

Premature — .\in. c ; Cale c ; Coce.; Con.; Cyel.; Ign.; Kal
c; Lamina; Lil t, Mag f.. Nat om; Nux v.; OL
an.; Phos., Sep.; Sinap n.; Sil; Sul; Xonth. See Ir-
regular.

Rheumatic — Caul.; Caust.; Cim.- Cocc.; Guaiac.; Rham. c.

Spasmodic, neuralgic-- \con.; Agar.; Bell; Caul.- Cham.
Cim.; Coff.; Collins ; Gels.; Glon.; Gnaph.; Mag. m.;
May. p., Nuvic, Puls ; Sab.; Santon.; Sec.; Senec.; Sep.;
Ver. vi3 Tu op; Xanth,
936 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Spasmodic, with uterine congestion — Acon.; Bell; Cim.;

Collins.; Gels.; Puls.; Sab.; Sep.; Ver. v.

MENORRHAGIA — (profuse, premature flow): Remedies in
general: Achill.; Agar.; Alet., Aloe; Ambra; Am. ¢.;
Apoc ; Aran, Arn.; Ars.; Bell.; Bor.; Bry.; Bov.; Cact.;
Cale. c., Cale. p; Can. wnd.; Canth.; Carbo v.; Caul.; Cea-
noth.; Cham., Chin. s.; Cim.; Cinch.; Cinnam.; Collins.;
Col; Croc , Cyel., Dig.; Erig.; Ferr. m.; Ferr. p.; Ferr.
red ; Fiecus, Geran.; Ciycerin; Ham.; Helon.; 0 dr.; Ign.;
Tonosia, Kak c.; Kal m.; Kreos., Lach.; Led; Lil. t.;
fag c.: Mez.; Millef.; Murex; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Pall;
Paraf; Phos. ac.; Phos., Phyt.; Plat.; Plumb.; Ruta;
Sab, Sec.; Sedum; Sep.; Sil; Stann.; Sul, ac.; Sul.;
Thias; Trill., Ustil.; Vinca, Xanth, .

After miscarriage, parturition —- Apis; Cim.; Cinch.; Helon.;
Kah c 3 Nit ac.; Sab; Sep.; oul.; Thlaspi; Ustid., Vib. op.

Every alternate period, profuse -— Thlasp.

Protracted, premature, profuse — Aloc, Asar.; Bell.; Calc.
c.; Cal. 10d ; Carbo an.; Cinnam ; Coff.; Ferr. ac; Ferr.
m.; Fluor. ac.; Glycerin; Grat.; Ign; Kreos.; Mullef.;
Nuvo ow, Onosm., Plat.; Raph.; Rhus tt; Sab.; Sec.;
Thlaspt, Trill.; Tub.; Xanth.

TYPE OF MENSTRUAL BLOOD — Acrid, corroding: Am c.;
Kah c., Lach.; Nat. s.; Nit. ac.; Rhus t; Sab.; Sil: Sul.

Bright-red — Acon,; Bell.; Brom; Calc. p.; Cinnam,
Glycerin; Ferr. p.; Jpec., Mullef.: Sab.; Sang.;
Ustil.

Changeable — Puls.

Coagulated— Am. m.; Beil, Bov, Chom, Cimy Cinch;
Coce.; Coccus, Coff.; Croc, Cycl , Glycerin; Helon.; Jugl.
r.; Kah m.; Lil t.; Mag. m: Med.; Musex; Nux vi: Plat.;
Plaumb.; Puls., Sab ; Sang.; Sul; Thlasps, Trill; Ustil.

Dark, blackish — Apis; Asar.; Bov.; Calc. p; Canth.; Caul.;
Cham.; Cim.; Cinch ; Cocc.; Coceus, Coff.; Croc.; Cycl.;
Elaps; Ham., Helon.; Ign., Kak m., Kait n.; Kreos.; Lach.;
Tal. t., Mag c.; Mag. m; Mag. p., Nit. ac.;: Nux v.; Plat.;
Plumb ; Puls, Sab.; Sec., Sep; Thlaspi, Trill; Ustil.,
Xanth,

Hot — Bell.

Membranoua, shreddy, like meat washings Brom.;) Cycl;
Fer:, m., Nat. c.; Nit. ac. See Coagulated

Offensive — Rell... Carbo v.: Cim.; Cop; Helon; Kah c.,
Kah p: Ls. t; Mag. c.; Mfed.; Psor.; Pyr.; Sab.; Sang.;
Sec., Sul; Vib. op.

Pale — 4lum., Ars.; Carbo v.; Ferr. m.; Graph.; Keli c.;
Nat. p; Puls., Sul. See Watery.

Partly fluid, partly clotted -—Ferr.; Ham; Plumb.; Sod.;
vec

Pitch-like — Cact ; Coce.; Cra; Kali m.; Mag. ¢.; Med;

Stringy, glairy, viscid, thick —- Arg. n.; Coccus; Croc.; Kat
m. Kreos.; Lac e; Mag. c.; Ma p.. New. ac.; Nux m.,
Plat. Puls.; Sui; Trill; Ust.; Xonth.

Watery, thin — Aith.; Alumen; Eupion: Ferr. ac.; Ferr m.,
Gossyp.; Kah p.; Nat. p; Phos.; Sab > Sec.

FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM 937

COMPLAINTS, PRECEDING AND ATTENDING FLOW — Ab-
domen distended: Apoc., Aran: Cham.; Cinch; Coce.;
Kali c.; Kreos; Nux v See Abdomen.

Abdomen sore — Ilam, Scp. See Abdomen

Abdomen, weight —Aloc, Bell.; Glycerin; ali s.; Puls.;

ep.

Anus, sore --Ars.; A/ur. ac. Sce Anus.

Aphonia — Gels., Graph.

Asthmatic seizures awaken her from sleep-~Cupr.; Jod.;
Lach.; Spong.

Axillz, itching — Sang.

Blindness — Cycl.; Puls.

Breasts, tender, swollen —- Bry.; Calc c.; Canth.; Con;
Giaph.; Helon.; Kah c.; Lac c., Mag. c.; Mere; Murex;
Phyt.; Puls ; Sang.

Burning in hands and soles — Carbo v.

Catalepsy — Mosch.

Chilliness, coldness — Am c: Apis; Cale. c; Cham.; Gly-
cern Graph; Nux v.; Plat; Fuls.; Sec; Sep; Sst;

er a.

Cholera-like symptoms — 4m c.; Bov.; Ver. a

Colds -- Mag. c; Sep

Constipation — Am. c.; Collins; Graph.; Nat. m.; Nux v.;
Plat.; Plumb., Sep, Sil; Sul

Cough — Groph., Lac c; Sul.

Deafness --— Kreos.

Diarrhea -—- Am _ c.; 4m. m, <Ars.; Bov., Cham.; Kreos.;
Phos.; Puls.; Ver. a.

Epistaxis — Acon; Brv., Ing, Gels.; Nat. s.; Sep.; Sul

Eruptions — Bell , Bellis; Cale. c.; Cim., Con; Mule; Eug.
j.: Graph,; Kal) ars, Kali_c., Mag m; Mang ac, Med,
‘sor.; Sang., Sars Sil, Thuya, Ver. a.

Eyes, blindness or fiery spots -- Cycl.; Sep

Eyes, burning -~— Niccol

Eyes, diplopia — Ge!s

Eyes, ophthalmia —- Puls.

Face flushed — Be/l., Cale. p.; Ferr. m.; Ferr p.; Gels;

‘ang.

Face pale, eyes sunken — Cycl.. Ipec: Ver a.

Feet and cheeks swollen — Apis; Graph.

Feet, pain in — Am. m.

Feet, swollen — Graph.; Lyc.; Puls.

Flushes of heat — Ferr.; Glon.; Lach., Sang.; Sul.

Frenzy — Acon.

Genitals, sensitive —Am. c; Cocc.; Lach; Kali c.; Plat.
See Vaginismus.

Headache, congestive symptoms — Acter.; Bell.: Bry.; Cim.;
Gocess Croc. > Cyel i Mert. m.! Fer. pe Gels. Glon. ; Graph.;
Kali p.; Kreos.; Nat. m., Nux v; Puls; Sang.; Arg
Sul; Ustd., Ver. vy Xanth oi Sep;

Heart, pain, palpitation, etc. -- Coct.; Crot.; Eupion; Lach;
Lith c., Sep; Spong

Hoarseness, coryza, sweats — Graph.

Hunger 7 Spong. Caul

Hysterical symptoms — Caul.: C:m ; Gels.; Ign.; Ms
Nux y.; Plat.; Puls.; Senec.; Vib. cp. gn; Mag

Inflammation of throat, chest, bindder — Sence.
938 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Insomnia — Aga:.; Scnec. . . .

Irritability —- Cham ; Cocc.; Eupion; Kreos.; Lil. t.; Lye;
Mag. m.; Nuzx v.

Joint pains — Canl.; Sab.

Labia burning -— Calc. c.

Lachrymation, catarrhal state of eyes, nose —— Euphras.

Leucorrhoea - Var. c.; Bor.; Calc. c.; Carbo v.; Caust.;
Graph.; Nat. m., Puls.

Leucorrhea, acrid — Jacli.; Sep.

Mania, sexual -- Dulc., Plat.; Stram ; Ver. a.

Morning sickness, nausea, vomiting 1m m.; Bor.; Cocc.;
Cyel., Graph ; Ichth ; Jpec.; Kreos.; Meli.; Nux v.; Puls.;
Sep.; Ver. a.

Moutl sore, swelling of gums, cheeks; bleeding ulcer —

Os,

Mouth, tongue, throat dry, especially during sleep— N u x
m, Tar. hy

Nervous disturbance, restlessness — 4con., Cham.; Caul.;
cum., Ign: Kreos.; Lach, Mag. m.; Mag. p.; Nit. ac;
Puls.; Salix ou; Senec; Sep, Trill; Vib. op ; Nanth.

Nipples and breasts icy cold -— Med.

Old symptoms aggravated - Nux v.

Pain, burning in left ovarian region, on motion —- Croc;
Thuya; Ustil.

Pain, colicky, labor-like, spasmodic --Alet., Aloe; Am. c.;
Am m.; Apis, Bell.; Bor; Bow... Brom.; Cale. c.; Caul.;
Cham ; Cium., Cinch 3 Coce., Coft., Col, Cupre mi; Cred;
Feir. m., Ferr. p; Gels ; Graph., Helon ; Hematox.; Ign.:
Jonosia; Aalt c., Kreos.; Lil. t.; Mag. ¢., Afag. m, Mag. p .
Med.; Mole; Naot, m; Nit ac: Nux mi: Nue v.; Plat.;
Fuls ; Sab., Sec.; Sep.; Stann,; Ver. a, Ver. v.; Vespa;
Vib, op , Nauth.

Pain, extending around pelvis, from sacrum to groin —
Piat ; Puls.; Sep.; Vib op

Pain extending down hips, thighs, legs — Am. m.; Berb.
vy; Bry.; Castor.; Caul., Cham.; Cim.; Coff.; Col , Con.;
Gels, Graph; Lil. t.; Mag. m.; Nit. ac; Plat., Sep.,
Trill; bib. op.; Nanth.

Pain, extending through pelvis antero-posteriorly or later-
ally -— Bell.

Pain, extending to back (sacrum, coccyx)-- 4m, « , Am.
mj; Asai.; Rell; Bur.: Cale. ce; Cale. p., Caust.; Cham.;
ies Cim,, Cupr om... Cych; Gels., Graph.; Helow.; Kah
« Kreos,, Mag on... Nit ac; Nav v.; Phos; Plat.; Pod.;
vals. Radum, Sah; Senec., Sep., Spong; Vib. op.;
Xanth,

Pain, extending to chest - Caul.; Cham.; Cim; Cupr. m

Pain, extending to groins -- Bor.; (Caul., Kali oc; Lil ts
Vlat.; Tanae; Oste.

Pain, extending to liver - Phos ac

Pain, extending to pubes -.\inus; Bov.; Col.; Cycl; Ra-
um, Sab, Sep; Vib op.

Pain, extending to rectum — dive; Nerophyl.

Pain in feet) - Am. om

Pain in ovaries cipis’ Beli.; Bry; Cact.; Canth.: Cin;
Col. Uam Tod; Jonosia, Kal n.; Lach; Lgl t.; Pace.
ac.; Sahx n., ‘lar. h.; Thuya, Vib. op.
FEMALE SEXUAL S\ STEM 939

Pruritus — Cale c; Geaph., Hep.: Inula, Kah ¢.3 Sue; Sul.

Rectal and vesical irritation — Sab.

Sadness— Am c: Brom. Caust.; Cim.; Coce.; Ferr.; Helon ;
fgu.; Lye.; Nat m., Phos.; Plat; Puls., Sep, Vespa.

Salivation -— Pulcx.

Sexual excitement - Plat

Sore throat -- Canth , acc. Vag. c.

Spasrs-- Aitem; Bufo. Cale 5; Caul ; Cim ; Cupr. m.;
Gels.; i. Hyos, jan, Tach; Mag m., CRnanthe; Plat;
Tar.

Stomach disturbances- \ig un; Ais; Brv.; Kal co; Lach ;
Lye, Nux mi Nua i, Puls, Sep i Sul.

Stretching, yawning - -.\m_ cc; Puls

Syncope -- \is, Cinch 3 Ign.; Mosch; Nux m; Nur v.;
Ver. a.

Tinnitus —- Ferr ; Kieos

Toothache — .\nt. c ; Gas. ce, Mag ec: Pals., Sep.

Urinary symptoms- Calc p. Canih.; Coceus; Gels ; Hyos 5
Mag p.; Med; Nua v, Plat.; Pulex; Puls.; Sener, Sep;
Ver. vii Vib op.

Vertigo — Cale c.; Cycl; Nux v.

Weakness -.f/im , Am. io, Catho an; Cuich., Coce; Perr.
m, Glycerin, Graph, Helon., Hematox., Ign.; lod.;
Niceol., Puls.; fer 2

COMPLAINTS FOLLOWING MENSES — Diarrhea: Graph ;

uls,

Erethigm, neuralgic pains, inframammary pains, insomnia
—_ uy,

Eruption - Krovus

Headache -Croc, Tach: Puls; Sep.

Headache, throbbing, with sore eyes Nat om.

Hysterical symptoms Fors om

Leucorrhea —-Fisc; Alum., Graph.; Areos., Nit. ac See
Leucors hoa.

Mamme swollen, milky secretion Cyel

Old symptoms aggravated ~ Nux v.

Ovarian pain - Zinc. m.

Pains (interrentrual) - Hry , Ham, Jod; Kreos, Sep.

Pruritus — Con, tye; Tar h.

Show occasional, every few days’ - Ror.; Bov,

Vomiting --- Crot.

Weakness, profound — Jan. Am. cj; Am. m; Ars; Cale.
c.; Carbo an., Carbo v.; Cim; Cinch., Coce., Ferr.; 3 Gly-
cerin; Graph; JIpec; Kali c¢., VPhos.; Trill; Ver. a;
Vinca

MODALITIES -— AGGRAVATION: At night: Am. c.; Am.
m., Bor.; Bow.; Coccus; Mag c.; Mag. m.; Zinc,

During flow —Cim., Ham; Kreos; Puls , Tub.

From excitement — Cale. as Sul, ‘Tub.

From lying down, rest--Am. c.; Am. om; Bov.; Cact.;
Caust.; Cycl.; Kseos.; Lil. t.: Mag. ¢.; Zine.

From motion — Bov.: Bry ; > Cact; Canth.; Caust.; Erig.;
Li. t.; Mag. p.; Sab.; Sec, Thlaspi: Tri Erig.;

From sleep — Mag. c.

In morning, daytime - Ror.; Bov.; Carbo an.; Caust.; Cycl;
Puls.; Sep.
940 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

AMELIORATION — From establishment of flow: Aster.; Cere-
um ox.; Cyel., Eupion; Lach.; Mag p ; Senec.; Zine.
From hot applications —- Mag p
From motion -- Am m; Cyel.; Kreos.; Afag. c.; Sab.

hooiwnt., Maura N., OUWaAM., Ollycu., Lur, Wy Valey Vere Ww

OVARIES — Abscess: Cinch; Hep.; Lach; Merc.; Phos. ac;
Pyr , Sil.

Atrophy — /od.; Oophor.; Orchit.

Complaints attending, or following, ovariotomy —- Ars.; Dell .
Bry.; Cinch.; Coff.; Col., Hyper.; Ipec.; Lye.; Naya; Nux
v.: Oophor.; Orchit ; Staph.

Congestion —- -lion,, .Tisc ; Aloe; Am. br.; Apis, Arg. n;
Rell, Bry , Canth,; Cim., Col.; Con.; Gels , Uam.; Tod :
Lil t., Mere.; Naya; Nat. chlor., Sep., Tar. h.; UstiL;
Tib. op See Inflammation.

CYSTS, DROPSY -- Apis; \poe; Arn.; Ars; 4ur tod; Aur.
m. nj; Bell.; Bov.; Bry.; Cinch.; Col; Con.; Ferr. iod.;
Graph ;_Jod.; Kali br.; Lach; Lal. t.; Lyc.; Oophor.;
Rhod ; Sab.; Teieb., Zinc.

Induration - Aur; \Vur mon: Carbo an; Con, Grapb.,
Jod.; Tach ; Pall; Plat.; Ustil.

Inflammation (ovaritis) — Acute: dcon.; Am. br; Apis;
Beil.; Bry.; Cact.; Canth.; Cim.; Col.; Con.; Ferr. p.;
Guaac ; Ham.; Iod.; Lech; Lil. t.3 Merc. cj; Merc;
Phos. ac.: Plat.; Puls.; Sab.; Thnya; Viscum.

Acute, with peritoneal invetverrent ~ i. on ps: Ars:
Bell, Bry ; Canth., Chin, s; Cinch; Col; Hep; Merc.
ce; $

wih

Inflammation, chronic, with induration Con, Graph ; Jod.,

Lach ; Pall; Plat; Sabal; Sep; Thuja.
PAIN — Boring: (ol; Zinc. m.

Burning ---lpis, .iIrs ; Bufo; Canth , Con.; Eupion; Fagop.;
Kalin; Tal. t.; Plat. Ustel : Zine v

Crampy, constrictive — (act, Col.; Naja.

Cutting, darting, tearing - Absinth: Acon.; Apis; Bell. ;
Bry., Caps; Col.; Con; Croc.; Lid. t., Naja; Puls.

Cutting, extending to thighs, legs-— Bry ; Cim., Croc: Lal
t; Phos ; Pod.; Wycth ; Xanth ; Zine. v.

Dull, constant — Aur. br.; Hydrocot.; Niccol s.; Sep

Dull, numb, aching —- Pod

Dull, wedge-like in uterus — Jod

Neuralgic (ovaralgia) -- Am. br.; Apis; Apium gr.; Atrop.;
Rell, Bry.; Cact.; Canth.; Caul.  Cim, Col, Con,
Ferr.;’ Ferr, p.; Gels.; Gossyp; Graph.; Ham., Hyper;
Kah br.: Lach., Lil. t.; Mag. p.: Melis; Mere e; Mere;
Naya. Phyt.; Plat: Pod: Puls.; Sabal; Salix n.; Sumb.;
Staph., Thea; Ustil.; Vib. op.; Xanth; Zinc. v.

Neuralgic, intermittent — Gossyp.; Thaspium; Z:zia.

Stinging ~- Apis: Canth.; Con.: Lil. t.; Mere.

Throbbing — Bell; Brachygi.:; Branca; Cact.; Hep.

Pain, in left ovary-- Am. br.; Apis, .\pium gr.; Arg. m.;
Caps.; Carb ac.; Com; Col.; Erig.; Eup. purp.; Frax.
am.; Graph; lod.; Lach; Lik 2; Med.; Murex; Naja;
FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM 941

Ov. g. pell.; Thos} Pics. ac.; Thaspium; Thea; Thuva,
Ustil.; Vespa; Wyeth.; Xanth.; Zane.

Pain, in right ovary i Absinth; Apis, Ars.; Beli, Tranca;
Bry.; Col.; Eupion; Peer Graph.; Iod., Lach.; Lil t;
Lyc.: Pall; Phyt ; Pod stil

Pain, with aggravation, from deep breathing - Bry.

Pain, with aggravation, from walking, riding, relieved by
lying down — Carb. ac ; Cocc.; Poa; 8 Sep.; Thuya, Ustil.

Pain, with frequent urination -- Vespa

Pain, with numbness, shifting gases in ascending colon
— Po

Pain, with relief, by drawing up leg - A\pium gr., Col,

Pain. with relief by flow ~—- Lach; Zinc. m

Pain, with relief from pressure, tight bandage - Col.

Pain, with restlessness, can’t keep still -- Kali br.; 9 Vib.
op.; Zinc.

Pain, with sympathetic heart symptoms -Cim ; J.J. 1., Naja

Swelling—-- Am. br., Apis, Bell; Brom; Graph; Wam.;
Lach, Pall.; Tar. h., Ustil See Congestion, Intiammation.

Tenderness, to touch, motion-- Ant c; Apis; Bell; Bry.;
Canth ; Carbo an , Cim., Ham.; Hep.; Tod.; Lach.; “Lal. t;
Piat.; Sabal; Tar. h.; Thea; Thuya; Ustil.; Zine, v.

Traumatic conditions — Arn.; Ham., Psor.

Tumors — Apis: Aur. m_ n.; Bov.: Col.; Con.; Graph.; Jod.;
Kali br.; Wach.; Oophor.; Pod.; Sec. See Cysts.

PELVIC — Abscess: Apis; Cale. ¢.; Hep.; Mere. ¢; Pall; Sil.

Pelvic cellulitis — Acon.; Apis, Ars.; Bell.; ry; Cale. 5 ;
Canth.; Cim.; Hep.; Med.: Merc. 1. rs Mere, s. > Rhus t.
Sil.; Tereb.; “tiha; Ver. v.

Pelvic hematocele- - Acon.; Apis; ars » Ars; Bell.. Canth.
Cinch.; Col.; Dig; Ferr.; Ham.; pec. Kak iod.; Lach,
Merc, Millet; Nit. ac.; Phos.; Sal Sec.; Sul; Tereb,
Thiaspi.

Pelvic peritonitis-— ‘con.; d4pis; Arn.; Ars; Bell., Rry.
Cauth., Chin. s.; Cim.; Cinch.; Col; Gels.; He Hyos.
Lach., Merc. c.; Op.; Pall; "Rhus te; Sab. ; ae Sih.
Tereb; Ver. v See Cellulitis, Metritis.

Pelvic peritonitis, with menorrhagia— Ars.; Ham.; Sab.

‘hiaspi.
PREGNANCY AND TABOR ABORTION: Remedies in general:
Acon.; Alet., Arn.; Bell.; Cale. Caul.; Cham; Cim.

Cinnam.; 3 Cinch, ; Coff.; Croc.; ; biiss H ‘Hel ; yh .
Ipec.; Kali c.; ; Millef.; Nit. ac.; Nux VO. Op.; * Pin ab -
Ore ; Rhus t.; Sab.; "Sec.: Sep.; Tanac.; “inant Trill.;

op.
Abortion from debility— Alet.; Caul.; Chin. s.;  Cinch.:
Helon.; Sec. ’
From fa‘ degeneraticn of placenta — Phos.
From fright, emotions — Acon., Cham.; Cim.; Op.
From mental depression, shock, watching, low fever —
ap
From ovarian disease — Apis.
From syphilitic taint — Aur.; Kali iod.; Merc. c.
From traumatism — Arn.; Cinnam.
942 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

With blood dark, fluid; formication - Scc.

With blood intermittent, pains spasmodic, excites suffoca-
tion, fainting; craves fresh air — Puls.

With blood light, fluid; painless — Millef.

With hemorrhage persisting — Nit. ac.; Thlasp:

With pains, frequent, labor-like; no discharge —- Sec.

With pains, from small of back, around to abdomen, end-
ing in crampy, squeezing, bearing down, tearing down
thighs -- Vib. op.

With pains, from small of back, to pubes, worse from
motion;' blood partly clotted — Sab

With pains from smail of back to thighs; weak back;
pains worse from motion; also subsequent debility and
sweat — Kali c

With pains, flying across abdomen, doubling her up; chills;
pricking in breasts; pains in loins — Cim

With pains, irregular, feeble, tormenting; scanty flow, or
long continued, passive oozing; backache, weakness,
internal trembling -—— Caul.

With .retained secundines — Cinch.; Pyr.

With septicemia -- Pyr.

With sequela -- Kali c.; Sab: Sul.

Tendency to abort -— diet, Apis; Aur.; Bac.; Cale, ¢.: Caul ;
Crm., Helon.; Kali c.; Kali iod.; Mere. c.; Mere.; Plumb ;
Puls.; Sab.; Sec.; Sep; Sil; Sul.; Syph.; Vib. op; Vib.
tr.; Zine m.

Tendency to abort at second or third month— Cim.; Kali
c.; Sab.; Sec.; Vib. op.

Threatened — 4con.; Arn.; Bapt.; Bell ; Caul.: Cham.; Cim ;
Cinch., Cuff , Cioc.; Fup purp., Ferr. m.; Helon ; Millef ;
Op; Puls; Sab.; Sec.; Trill.; Vib. op.; Vib pr,

COMPLAINTS DURING PREGNANCY — Abdomen, must lie
on, during early months: Acet. ac.; Pod.

Acne — Reil.; Sab.; Sep. See Skin.

Albuminuria — -Jpis > Ars., Aur. mur.; Cupr. ars.; Gels ;
Glon.; Helon.; Iridium; Kali chlor.; Kal.; Merc. c.; Phos.;
Sab; Thlasp:; Thyr; Fer. v. See Kidneys (Urinary
System).

Arms hot, sore, painful -— Zing.

Backache — #isc.; Kali c. See Locomotor System.

Bilious complications — Chel.

Bladder disturbances, tenesmus— Rell; Canth.; Caust.;
Equis.; Ferr.; Nux v.; Pop tr.; Puls.; Staph.

Breasts, painful, inflammatory — Beil.; Bry.

Breasts, painful, neuralgic -— Con.; Puls.

Congestion of brain —Glon, See Head.

Constipation — Alum.: Collms.; Lyc.; Nux v.; Op: Plat.;
Plumb ; Sep. See Adbomen.

Convulsions, spasms — Amyl; Glon.; Hyvs.; Lyssin; Gn-
anthe, See Nervous System.

b— Acon.; Apoc.; Bell; Bry.; Cham.; Caust.; Con.;
Sorel Drot; Glon., Hyos.; Kali br.: Ipee; Nnx v.:
. Op.

Cramps, in calves —-Cham.; Cupr.: Nux v.; Fer. a.

Cravings, abnormal— lum.; Calc. c.; Carbo v.; Sep. See

omach.

FEMALE SEXUAI. SYSTEM 943

Diarrhea - - Ferr. m.; Petrol: Phos acs Puls : Sec, Sul.

Discharge bloody— Kiig.; Kah c, Phos; Rhus t. See
Abortion.

Dyspepsia (heartburn, acidity) -. Anac.; Cale. c.; Canth 5
Caps.; Diose.; Nur ve; Puls. Sce Stomach,

Dyspneea -- Apoc.; Lyc.: Nua v.; Puls; Viola od See
Respiratory System

False pregnancy -- Cau! , Croc.; Nux v.; Theva.

Goitre — Hydr.

Hemorrhoids — Collins.; Pod.. Sul. Sce Abdomen, *

Herpes — Sep

Hiccough — Cycl. See Stomach

Insanity — Hyos. See Mind.

Mental symptoms --icon,, Cham., Cim , Puls. See Mind.

Metrorrhagia —- Cinch.; Cinnam . Tpec : Nit ae 3 See. Trill
See Uterus. '

Morning sickness (nausea, vomiting) —- Acon.; Alct.; dmyg.
ters, Anac; Ant. t.: Apomorph ; Arg. nj Ars.; Bry.;
Carb ac; Cereum ox.:; Com; Coce., Colch.; Crcurd.
Capr. aé., Cyel, Gnaph ; Gossvp.; Tpec., Iris; Kali m.
Kreos, Lact. ac.; Lob. tnf.; Mag. ¢; Mere; Nat p.
Nux m; Mex w.; Petrol; Phos; Piloc.; Puls.; Sep.
Staph ; Symphor.; Tab; The: ; Thyr. See Stomach

Mouth, sore ““Tlydr.; Simap. a See Mouth.

Nervous sensitiveness, extreme - <Asar.; Cim.; Ther

Pain, false labor -- Cal ; Cham; Cim.; Gels; Pale. Sev.

Pain in abdomen, as if strained, left side - - Am. m

Pain, in lumbar region, dragging, distressful— Arn.; Bell ;
Kah _c.; Nux v.; Puls; Rhus t.

Pain, rheumatic —- Acon.; Alct.; Crm.: Op.; Rhus t

Plethora — Acon.

Pruritus, vulve et vaginw -—- Acon.: .mbra, Ant. ¢.; Bor.;
Calad., Collins ; Ichth.; Sep., Tab. See Vulva.

Retinitis — Gels.

Salivation —- Ars.; Jod., Jabor.; Kreos.; Merc s.; Nat m;
Piloc.; Sul.

Sexual excitement - Plat See Nymphomania.

Sleeplessness —-.4con.; Cim.; Coff.; Nux v; Puls; Sul.

Toothache —: Acon.; Bell.; Cale. fl.: Cham.; Coff.; Kreos.;
Mag. c.; Nux v.; Raph.; Sep.: Staph.; Tab,

Toxemic conditions — Kali chlor.

Uterine and abdominal soreness -- HJam.: Puls.

Varicose veins— Arn.; Bellis; Calc. c.; Carbo v.; Ham;
Lyc.; Millef.; Sul.; Zinc. m.

Vertigo — Bell.; Cocc.; Nux v.

Weariness in limbs, cannot walk — Bellis.

PARTURITION — LABOR: CONVULSIONS (eclampsia) :
Acon.; th.; Arn; Bell.; Canth.; Cham.; Chiaral; Cic.;
Cim.; Coff.; Cupr. ars.; Cupr. m.; Gels.; Glon.; Aydroc.
ac.; Hy os. Ign.; Ipec.; Kali br.; Mere. c; Mere. d.;
Gnanthe; Op.; Piloc.; Plat.; Solan. n; Spireza; Stram;
Ver v.; Zinc. m. ,

PAINS 5 Excessive: Bell. i 1 Coff.

‘alse Jabor pains — Bell.; Cham.; Caxi.; Cim.; ON
v.; Puis.; Sec.; Vib. op. , i Gels; Nux
Hour glass contraction — Bell.: Sec.
Labor premature —
944 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Needle-like prickings in cervix —- Cau) . .

Shifting, across abdomen, doubling her up; pricking in
mamme - - Cim. .

Shifting, all over, exhaustion; fretful; shivering ~—— Caul.

Shifting, from back to rectum, with urging to stool, or
urination -- Nux v.

Shifting, from loins down legs— Aloe; Bufo; Carbo v.;

aul.; Cham; Nur vw

Shifting upwards — Cham., Gels. ;

Spasmodic, irregular, intermittent, ineffectual, fleeting —
Arn; Artem; Bell., Bor ; Caul.; Caust ; Cham.; Chloral.;
Con, Cimmnam.; Cinch ; Coff; Ggls.; Kalt c.; Nat. mj;
Nux 7. Op.; Pituitrin; Puls ; Satchar. of.; Sec.

With hypersensitiveness to pain-- dcon, Rell: Caul :
Caust , Cham.; Com., Cinch.; Coff ; Gels.; Hyos.; Ign.;
Nuxc, Puls. '

With relief from pressure in back — Caust.; Kali c

With syncope -Cim; Nux v; Puls.; Sec.

PLACENTA — Retained: .frn.. Canth.; Caul; Cim: Cinch.;
Ergotin; Gossyp ; Ilydr., ZIgn., Puls ; Sab.; Sec., Viscum.

RIGID OS — Acon.; Bell.; Caul.; Cham.; Cim.; Gels ; Lob.
infl.; Ver. v.

PUERPERIUM — (Lying-in period):  Aft#r-pains: -[con.;
Amyl ; -irn ; Belt ; Cale. c.; Caul.; Carbo v.; Cham., C.m.;
Coce; Coff., Cupr. ars.; Cupr. m.; Gels., Ign.; Kal c.;
Lach.; Nux v; Puls; Pyr.; Rhus t.; Sab.; Sec.; Sep.;
Vib. op; Vib, pri; Xanth.

After pains, across lewer abdomen, into groins -— Cau.

After pains, ealeadiag ints shins Carbs v.; Cocc

Backache, debility, sweat — Kali c

Complications prevented —- <irn.; Calend

Constipation — Bry.; Collins.; Nux v.; Ver. a3 Zinc m

Diarrhea — Cham., Hyos.; Puls.

Hemorrhage (flooding, post-partum)-— 4cet. ac; Am. m.;
Amyl; Arn; Ars.: Bell, Caul; Cham.; Cench , Crnnam.;
Croc, Cycl; Ferr.; Geran; Ham., Hyos.; Ign; Ipec,
Kah c.; Millef.; Puls; Sab ; Sec., Trill; Ustil.

With bright red fluid; painless flow — Mullef.

With bright red, hot, profuse flow in gushes —- Bell.

With bright red, hot, profuse flow; collapsic symptoms —

ec,

With collicky, bearing-down pains, relieved by gush o1
blood — Cyc!

With dark, thick, paroxysmal flow; debility — Cinch

With habitual tendency; profuse, dark, clotted — Trill.

With pain from back to pubes; dark, clotted, painless

low —- Sab.

With passive, dark, fluid blood, worse from motion; thin
females; relaxed uterus; formication ce.

With uterine inertia — Am. m: Caul.: Puls.; Sec

Hemorrhoids -- Acon , Aloe, Bell; Ign.; Puls.

LOCHIA — Acrid: Bapt ; Kreos.: Mtt. ac.; Pyr.

Lochia bloody —Chrom. ac.: Trill.

Lochia bloody, dark —Caul.; Cham.; Kreos.; Nit. ac.; Pyr.;

‘ec.
Lochia bloody, in gushes, worse from motion — Erig
944 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Needle-like prickings in cervix —- Cau) . .

Shifting, across abdomen, doubling her up; pricking in
mamme - - Cim. .

Shifting, all over, exhaustion; fretful; shivering ~—— Caul.

Shifting, from back to rectum, with urging to stool, or
urination -- Nux v.

Shifting, from loins down legs— Aloe; Bufo; Carbo v.;

aul.; Cham; Nur vw

Shifting upwards — Cham., Gels. ;

Spasmodic, irregular, intermittent, ineffectual, fleeting —
Arn; Artem; Bell., Bor ; Caul.; Caust ; Cham.; Chloral.;
Con, Cimmnam.; Cinch ; Coff; Ggls.; Kalt c.; Nat. mj;
Nux 7. Op.; Pituitrin; Puls ; Satchar. of.; Sec.

With hypersensitiveness to pain-- dcon, Rell: Caul :
Caust , Cham.; Com., Cinch.; Coff ; Gels.; Hyos.; Ign.;
Nuxc, Puls. '

With relief from pressure in back — Caust.; Kali c

With syncope -Cim; Nux v; Puls.; Sec.

PLACENTA — Retained: .frn.. Canth.; Caul; Cim: Cinch.;
Ergotin; Gossyp ; Ilydr., ZIgn., Puls ; Sab.; Sec., Viscum.

RIGID OS — Acon.; Bell.; Caul.; Cham.; Cim.; Gels ; Lob.
infl.; Ver. v.

PUERPERIUM — (Lying-in period):  Aft#r-pains: -[con.;
Amyl ; -irn ; Belt ; Cale. c.; Caul.; Carbo v.; Cham., C.m.;
Coce; Coff., Cupr. ars.; Cupr. m.; Gels., Ign.; Kal c.;
Lach.; Nux v; Puls; Pyr.; Rhus t.; Sab.; Sec.; Sep.;
Vib. op; Vib, pri; Xanth.

After pains, across lewer abdomen, into groins -— Cau.

After pains, ealeadiag ints shins Carbs v.; Cocc

Backache, debility, sweat — Kali c

Complications prevented —- <irn.; Calend

Constipation — Bry.; Collins.; Nux v.; Ver. a3 Zinc m

Diarrhea — Cham., Hyos.; Puls.

Hemorrhage (flooding, post-partum)-— 4cet. ac; Am. m.;
Amyl; Arn; Ars.: Bell, Caul; Cham.; Cench , Crnnam.;
Croc, Cycl; Ferr.; Geran; Ham., Hyos.; Ign; Ipec,
Kah c.; Millef.; Puls; Sab ; Sec., Trill; Ustil.

With bright red fluid; painless flow — Mullef.

With bright red, hot, profuse flow in gushes —- Bell.

With bright red, hot, profuse flow; collapsic symptoms —

ec,

With collicky, bearing-down pains, relieved by gush o1
blood — Cyc!

With dark, thick, paroxysmal flow; debility — Cinch

With habitual tendency; profuse, dark, clotted — Trill.

With pain from back to pubes; dark, clotted, painless

low —- Sab.

With passive, dark, fluid blood, worse from motion; thin
females; relaxed uterus; formication ce.

With uterine inertia — Am. m: Caul.: Puls.; Sec

Hemorrhoids -- Acon , Aloe, Bell; Ign.; Puls.

LOCHIA — Acrid: Bapt ; Kreos.: Mtt. ac.; Pyr.

Lochia bloody —Chrom. ac.: Trill.

Lochia bloody, dark —Caul.; Cham.; Kreos.; Nit. ac.; Pyr.;

‘ec.
Lochia bloody, in gushes, worse from motion — Erig
FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM 945

Lochia hot, scanty --- Bell.

Lochia intermittent - Con , Kreoy , Pyr ; Rhus t.; Sul

Lochia offensive —~ Bapt., Beil, Carb. ac.; Carbo an.; Carbo
v.; Chrom. ac.; Crot. t; Erig.; Areos; Pyr.; Rhus t;
Sec., Sep.; Sul.

Lochia proionged —Cale ¢; Caul ; Cinch.; Helon.; Millef.;
Rhus t.; Sab.; Sec ; Trill; Ustil.

Lochia scanty -~ Rell, Cham » Puls.

Lochia suppressed dean Arar: BRell.; Bry;  Cham.;
Echin ; Hyos ; Leonorus, Puls » Sec: Sul. Zine

Nymphomania Cineh ; Fane Vow a

Panaritium - ~ Cepa.

Prolapsus rect: — Ruta Sec Abdomen.

Puerperal cellulitis --Wep: Rhus t, Ver vy

Puerperal fever (milk fever)-- Acon ; Hry.; Cale. c.; Cham.

Puerperal fever, septic (septicemia) o<feon; Ail; Arn;
Ars ; Bapt.. Bell, Bry ; Cale c 3; Carb ac.; Canth.; Cham.;
Ching so; Crm; Crot, Echin. diydrec., ac; Vyos.; Kali ¢;
Kak p.; Lach: Lye. Merc oc, Mere. s.; Nux vj; Puls.;
Pyr, Rhus t, Sec: Sep., Tescb; Vers . See Pyaemia
(Generalities).

Puerperal mania-— Bell; (an md, Cim; Hyos.; Plat;
Senec.; Stram., Ver. v.; Zine. See Mind.

Puerperal melancholia ——- .4gn., Aur; Cim.,  Plat.; Puls.
See Mind

Puerperal metritis — Bell. Canth., Lach; Nux v.; Tilia.
See Uterus.

Puerpera! peritonitis --.\con ; Beill., Bry.; Merc. c.; Pyr.;
Sul; Tereb. See Abd>men.

Puerperal tympany — Tercb

Sweating --- Cham.; Samb , Stram,

Urinary incontinence - NIN. Bell ; Caust ; Trill

Urinary retention, suppression — Aceon ; Arn., Bell.; Equis.;
Hyos., Op.; Stram.

COMPLAINTS AFTER PUERPERIUM — Acne on chin: Sep.

Constipation — Mez; Vcr. a. See Abdomen.

Hair falls out — Carbo v; Nat. m.; Sep.

Hemorrhords ~- Ham. Sce Abdomen.

LACTATION — Discharge, bloody during nursing: Sil.

Excitement, sexual, uring nursing -- Calc. p.

Menses during — Cale. c; Pall.

Milk, absent, or scanty, tardy (agalactea) — Acon.; Agn.
Asof.; Bry.; Cal. c.; Caust.; ham ; ; Chel; Formica
Fragar: Lac « s Lac d: Phos. ac.: Phos.; Phyt.; ; Piloc.
Puls., Ricinus Sil; Sticta; Thyr.; Ure; ; X-ray.

Milk, bloody -- Bufo

Milk, bluish, transparent, sour, impoverished, or faulty,
so child rejects it py deat. ac.; Cale. ¢; Calc. p.; Mere.

M phos. ac.; red i Sil; ul Bell.; B
ilk suppressed— Acov.; Agn.; Be ry.; Camph. monobr.
Cham.; Phyt ; 7’uis.; See; ; Zine m. P

Milk, too profuse (galactorrhea) —- Bell; Bor.; Cale. c.
Cham.; Chimaph.; Con.; Erig.; Iod.; Lac c; Lact. v.
Medusa; Parth ; Phos.; Phyt.; Pip. m.; Rheum; Ricinus
Sabal; Salvia; See.; Solan, olec.; piranth.; Ustil.

Milk, too profuse (ts dry up during weaning) — Asaf.;

Bry , Cele. c.; Con.; Lee c.; Puls.; Ure.
946 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Pain, drawing from nipple, all over body, during nursing
— Phyt.; Puls.; Sil. .
Pain, drawing from nipple to back, during nursing —

rot. t.

Pain, intolerable, between nursings — Phell.

Pain, in opposite breast — Bor.

Prolonged nursing, with anemia, debility — Acct. ac.; Calc.
Ps Earbo an.; Cinch ; Phos. ac

Menorrhagia -- (ak c., Phos.; Sil

Milk leg (phlegmasia alba dolens) Acon: Apis; Ars.;
Rell, Bism, Bry.; Bufo, Crot; Ham.; Lach; Puls.;
Rhus t, Sul; Urt.

Prolapsus uteri - Pod. Sce Uterus.

Sore mouth - Ilydi., Simap a.

Sub-involution -+.fur. mi. n., Cale ec. Caul; Cim; Croc ;
Epiph., Ferr. iod., Frax. m.; Helon., Uydr.; Kal br;
Lil t., Mel. oc. sale, Nat. hypochl; Pod.; Sec.; Sep.;
Ustil.

Weakness — Chin. s.. Cinch.: Kali c.

Weaning, ill effects - Bry, Cycl, Fragat ; Puls

PUBIC HAIR — Falls out: Nat om; Nit. ac; Zine. m

TUBES, FALLOPIAN — Inflammation (salpingitis): con,
Apis: airs, Bry.; Canth; Chin. s.; Col, Eupion; Her.
Merc. c., Sabal. Sce Metritis, Peritonitis.

UTERUS — Atony, weakness, relaxation: Abies c.; Alet.; Aloe
Alston., Alum.; Bellis; Caul.. Cinch ; Ferr. iod ; Helon.
Lappa, Lil, t; Puls; Rhus ai.; Sad., Sec; Sep; Trill.
Ustil See Displacements.

CERVIX —Induration of, and os: <Alumen: Aur. m3 Aur,
mur, Aut. om on; Carbo an; Con; Helon.; Kak «
Jod Kal; Mag m; Nat. c.; Plot.; Sep.

Cervix, inflammation (endocervicitis) —- Ant. t; Arg.
Ars.; Bell.; Calend.; Hydr.; Lye.; Merc. ¢.; Merce.; Nit.
ac.: Sep. See Ulceration,

Cervix, redness — Hydrocot ; Mitchella.

Cervix, swelling, scirrhus-like — Ananth.

Cervix, swelling, with urinary symptoms -~ Canth

Cervix, tenesruus ~ Bell.; Ferr. m

Cervix, tumors, cancerous — Carbo an.; Kreos.; Thuya.

Cervix, ulceration- Alnus, 4°9. m.. Arg. n.; Ars.; Aur. m.
n; Rufo; Carb. ac.; Carbo an.; Fluor. ac.; Hydr.;
Hydrocot., Kah ais.; Kreos, Lye; Merc. oc; Merc;
Murex; Phyt.; Scp.; Sul. ac.: Thuya; Ustil.; Vespa.

Cervix, ulceration, bleeding easily — Alnus; Arg, n.; Carbo
an.; Kreos.

Cervix, ulceration, deep —— Mere c.

Cervix, ulceration, in aged — Sul. ac.

Cervix, ulceration, spongy — Arg. n.; Kreos.

Cervix, ulceration, superficial —- Hydr.; Merc.

Cervix, ulceration, with fetid, acrid discharge — Ars.; Carb.

ac
Cervix, ulceration, with fetid, ichorous, bloody discharge
— Carho an ; Kreos,

CONGESTION — Acon ; Aloe, Aur.; Bell.; Bellis; Cawl.; Cim.;
Collins.; Croc.; Frax, am., Gele; Iod.; Lit t.; Mag. ps
Mitchella; Murex; Puls; Sabal; Sab.; Sep.; Stroph.;
Sul.; Tar. h; Ver. v. See Inflammation. .
FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM 947

Congestion, chronic or passive ~.Fsc ; elt, Cale c.; Cim.;

Collins. Helon.; WLach.; Polymma, Sep.; Stann.; Sul;
‘stil,

Consciousness of a womb; very tender to jars —-//elon.:
Lye; Lyssin; Med, Murex, . .

Disorders, with reflex heart symptoms —- Cim: Lil. t.

Disorders, with toothache, headache, salivation, neuralgia
— sep.

DISPLACEMENTS (flexions, versions) — -tbics c.; sc ; Bell.;
Carb. ac.; Eupion, Ferr iod., Ferr mj; Fraa am,
Heliotr.; Helon.; Lappa; Lil. t., Mel. c. sale; Murex,
Puls ; Sabal; Sec ; Senec.; Sep ; Stann.

Displacements, prolapsus — Abies c.; .Esc; Agar.; llet.;
Aloe; Arg. m.; Asperula; Aur. m. nm; Bell., Benz ac,
Cale ¢.. Cale. p.: Cale sil, Caul, Collns.; Con.; Fer
bi.; Fert. tod., Ferr. m.; Fras. am; Graph.; Helon.; Ign.;
Kah Inch, Kreos; Lach, Li t, Met. c. sale, Murea,
Nat. chlou.; Nat. m.; Nux m; Nue v., Onosm; Pall;
Plat: Pod, Puls., Rhus ¢, Sec.; Senec.; Sep.; Stann.,
Staph.; Tiha, Trill; Zine. v.

HEMORRHAGE (Metrorrhagia): Remedies in general —
Acet ac.; Achill, Agar; Ambra, Apis; Arg. n.; Arg. oxy.;
Arn., Ars., Aur mur. kah; Beil.; Bov.; Biy.; Cact.; Cale.
«., Canth.; Cal, Cham, Cim.; Cina; Curch.; Cinnam.,
Collins ; Croc., Crot. case; Crot; Dictam.; Flaps: Erig ,
Ferr. a., Ferr om, Ferr. p.; Faligo; Ham, Helon.,
Hydrast , lod., Ipec , Jonosia, Jump v. Kali ni; Kieos 3
Lach,; Lit. t., Mag m; Mangif. ind.; Millef.; Muitchella;
Nat. chlor., Nit. ac., Nux v.; Phos.; Plat.; Plumb.; Puls.;
Pyr ; Rhus ar, Robin.; Sab.; Sec, Sep.; Sul. ac.; Sul;
Stram., Tereb,; Thiasm, Trill, Usul; Vinca, Viscum;
Xanth,

From chlorosis; climateric; cancer uteri - Thlasjn

From currettage -~- Nit. ac.

From fibroids-- Cale. c.. Nit. ac; Phos., Sab.; See; Sul.
ac.; Thlaspi; Trill, Vinca.

From mechanical injury, straining — Ambra, Arn.;  Cin-
nam.; Ham.

From parturition, abortion -— Caul., Cham., Cinch; Croc;
Ipec.; Mallef.; Nit. ac.; Sab., Sec., Thiaspi. See Preg-
nancy.

From retained placenta —- Sec , Stram

From uterine atony, malarial cases — Cinch.

Inter-menstrual -— Ambra, Arg. n.; Bov.; Calc. c.; Cham.;
Elaps; Ham; Ipec., Mag. s; Phos.; Rhus t.; Robin;
Sab., Vinca. ’

With backache, relieved by pressure, sitting — Kali c.

Witb blood, black — Caul.; Croc.; Elaps; Mag. ¢.; Plat.

With blood, bright red, profuse, gushing, from least mo-
tion— Acal ; Beill., Bov.; Cham.; Erig.; Ipec.; Med.;
Milef.; Mitchella; Phos.; ‘Sab.; Sec.; Trill; Ustil; Vis.
cum,

With blood, clotted or partly clotted— Acal.: . .
Plat. ; Phamb.; Puls., Rhus t.; Sab.; Thiaspi; Trill.; Ustil.;
948 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

With blood clotted or fluid; paroxysmal or continual flow;
Nausea, vomiting; palpitation, pulse quick, feeble when
moved; vital depression; fainting on raisimg head from

illow --- Apoc

With blood dark, fluid, offensive - -Cict

With blood, profuse, painless -—- Millef.; Nit. ac.

With blood, profuse, painless, dark, venous — Hom.; Man-

gif. ind.

With blood, profuse, passive, obstinate — Caul.; Cinnam.

With blood, profuse, passive, thin, fetid; in cachectic
females = Sec.

With blood, profuse, very dark, thick, tarry; dragging,
downward, pressing in pelvis and groins, followed
by sacral pain; unnatural genital sensibility and
irritability — Plat.

With blood thin; painless flow — Carbo an.: Cinch.; Sec.

With fainting -- Apis; Cinch.; Ferr m.; Trill.

With faintness in stomach —- Crot.; Trill

With feeling, as if back and hips were falling to pieces,
relieved by bandaging; fainting — ‘Trill.

With feeling of enlarged head -— Bad

With flow in paroxysms, bright red; joint pains — Sab.

With flow in paroxysms, thin, light blood, firm coagula;
severe labor-like pains- Cham

With heavy abdomen, faintness, stinging pains — Apis.

With labor-like pains-- Cau/. Cham., Cum; TWam.; Sab.;
See ; Thlaspi; Viscum.

With nausea —- Apoc ; Caps: I pec.

With painful micturition; pallor; violent irritation of rec-
tum, bladde:, piolapsus Eng.

With pain extending to navel; dyspnea — Ipec

With pain passing around pelvis, from sacrum to groin —
-uls.; Sep.

With pain passing through pelvis, antero-posteriorly or
laterally — Bell

With septic fever -— Pyr.

With sexual excitement -- Ambra: Plat.; Sah.

With uterine congestion, inflammation -- Sab.

With weak heart — Am. m.; Dig.

HYDROMETRA — Nat. hypochlor.; Sep

Induration — Aur.; Aur. m. kah; dur. m. n.; Carbo an;

Con.; lod., Kal.; Kreos.; Mag. m; Plat.; Sep.

INFLAMMATION (endometritis, metritis) — Acute: Acon.
Ant. iod.; Apis; Arn.;_Ars.; Bell; Bry.; Canth ; Cham
Cim ; Cinch.: Con.; Gels ; Wep.; Hyos.; Jod.; Kali c.
Kali iod.; Lach; Ial. t.; Mel. c. sole; Mere. c.: Nux v.
Op.; Phos. ac.; Plat.; Puls., Rhus t.; Sab; Sec; Sep.
Sil; Stram.; Sul; Tereb.; Tia; Ver. 2,

Inflammation, chronic — Alet ; Aloe; Ars.; Aur. m.: Aur.
mn, Boi. Calc. c.; Carb, ac, Caul.; Chin. ars.; Com.
Cor . Graph } Helon.; Hydr.; Hydrocot.; Inula; Iod.
Nak beh. Kah ¢; Kah s.: Kreos., Lach.; Mag. m.
Nee “ sale Merc: Mures; Nat. m; Nit. ac; Nas v.

0. ron os.: Plumb.; s te: . .
Sil; Stram . Sui mb.; Puls, Rhus t.; Sab.; Sec.; Sep.
“FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM 949

Inflammation, chronic, follicular — //ydr.; Hydrocot.; led;
ere.

Inflammation, chronic, with arterial congestion ~~ Bell ;
Til t.; Sab.

Inflammation, chronic, with venous congestion -- Aloc; Col-
lins., Mag. m; Murex: Sep

Inflammation, hemorrhagic cases - Ars ; Ham.; Led.;
Phos ; See ; Thiespr.

Inflammation, per: or para metritis — Acon ; Bell; Canth.;
Col.; Hep.; Merc. c., Sil.

IRRITABLE uterus (hysteralgia) dlis Caul, Com, Ign;
Lil. t., Mag. m; Murex, Tar. ho Sve Pain,

PAIN — Bruised, broken feeling, of pelvic bones: .2is:., Arn.;
Belhs; Lappa. Trill.

Burning-- Acon , rs, Bell ; Bufo; Cale ars, Canth,, Carbo
an.; Con; Hep, Kreas, Lapis alb.; Wurex, Pall, Sec 5
Tereb., Xanth.

Colicky, cramps, labor-like, bearing down fyar, Apis,

rg. m.; Calad, Cale. ¢.; Can ond, Caul, Caust 5
Cham., Cim, Coce.. Col ; Con; Cupr., Diose.; Ferr 10d;
Ferr.; Gels ; Gossvp.; Hedeoma; /gn.; Inula; pec , Lach;
Mag. p, Nat m; Awa v.. Onosm; Op; Plat.; Puls;
Sab., Sec.; Sep, Sil; Thiaspi; Tiha; Vib, op., Xanth,
See Labor.

Constricting, squeezing —Belhs, Cat, Cham; Cinch;
Gels.; Mag. p.; Nux v.; Polygon.; Sep.; Ustil

Neuralgic, lancinating, spasmodic, tearing, shooting, cut-
ting, stitching — Acor ; vigar.; Apis, -lran, Bell, Biv;
Bufo, Cale ¢.3 Cim., Cinch.; Col, Con; Croat. case;
Cupr. ars; Drose., Ferr ; Graph.; Kali p: Lach, Lil t.;
Mag. m.: Mag. f., Mere; Murer, Op, /'lat. Mule,
See; Tar. he; Vib. op., Viscum. See Dysmenorrhea.

Neuralgic, from back, circumferentially -- flat ; Sep

Neuralgic, from back to abdomen - -Sep., Viscum

Neuralgic, from back to pubes Hell, Sab

Neuralgic, from back to thighs, legs Bufo. Carb, ac.;
Cham.; Cum ; Puls.; Sab.

Neuralgic, from hip to hip- Bell, Cale c.; Cim.; Cinch;
Col.; Pall.

Neuralgic, from navel to uterus —~ Ipec

Neuralgic, radiating to chest ~-Jach.; Murex; Vespa.

Neuralgic, right side, upward across body, thence to left
mamma — Murex.

Pressing, as if viscera would protrude from vagina —Agar. ;
Bell, Cim.; Cinnam.; Crot.; Ferr. sod.; Ferr m.; Frax.
am., Gossyp.; Heliotr.; Kali ferrocy.; Kreos.; Lac c.;
Lil. t.; Lye; Mosch.; Murex; Nat. c.; Nat. chlor.;
Nat. m.; Nur v.: Onosm.; Ova g. pell; Pall.; Pod.; Puls.;
Sanic.; Sep.; Stann.; Sul; Tiha, Trill.; Vib. op.;

P Xanth. * Mer oph: full a ,

ressing, aviness, ness, dragging in Ivis— tT.

Alet.; Aloe; Ant c.; Aur, m. me Bell.; Cale. a3 cae
Carb. ac; Cim.; Cinch.; Cocc.; Colhns.; Con.; Ferr. br.:
Frax. am.; Glycerin; Gnaph.; Gossyp.; Helon.; Kali bich.;
Lappai dal ts Mag. ¢-3 (Mag. ms, Mere; urex; Nat.

lor. ; w.; Pist.; Plumb.; Pod.; - 7
Sul.; Tritt; Wycth.; Zinc, v. olygon.; Sep
950 FEMALE SEXUAL SYSTEM

Pressing in back — \gar.; Bell.; Carb. ac.; Cham.;_ Cim.;
Gels., Gossyp.; Tedeoma; Helon , Inula; Kal c.; Kreos ;
Nat. m.; Onosm.; Trill.; Vespa; Vib. op.

Pulsating, throbbing - -Loc., Bell; Cact, Hep; Murex.

Splinter-like — Arg. n.

Ulcerative, between anus and perineum, when walking or
sitting Cyel

PHYSOMETRA —-Bell; Bis; Brom., Lyc.; Nux v.; Phos
ac.; Sang.

Sorness, tenderness of uterus — Abies c., Acon.; Apis; Arg
m; Am; Bell; Belts; Bry; Cim.,  Conv.; Helon.,
Kreos , Lach.; Lappa; Lil. t.. Lyssin, Mag. m; Mel. ¢
sale, Mere, Murex, Plat ; Sanic.; Sep., Thlaspi; Talia.

TUMORS — Cancer, malignant disease: rg =m, Ars. tod
irs, fur. m on., Bell; Bov , Cale. ars.; Cale. s.; Caltha,
Carbo an, Carcinos; Cham.; Cineh.; Con., Graph ; Hydr.,
lod: Jiu; Kah bich. Kah p.; Kali s; Areos.; Lach;
Lapis alb,, Mag, p.j Murex; Ova t.; Phos, Phyt.; Rhus
t. Seo., Sep; Sil, Staph, Sul; Tar. c.; Thlaspi; Thuya;
Tell; Zine m. .

Cancer, hemorrhage -  Vicll.; Kivos ; Lach.; Sab ; Thlaspt,
‘stil.

Fibroids, polypi, ryo-fibromata Jur tod., 4ur. mu,
Bell; Cale. ©, Cale, 10d . Cale py, Calend., Cinch.: Con ;
Kied., Fert. Prax am, Wam; Hydr.; Hydrocot., iod.;
Tpee : Nal wad.; Lach, Wed; Lves Mere ce, Mero nor,
Nit, ace Phos, Prat; Plumb, Puls, Sabal, Sab., Sang.,
See; Sep: Sil; Solid; Staph; Sul; Thlaspr, Thuya,
Thy; Tall

VAGINA — Aphthous patches, ulcers, erusions — Alumen;
elig. on Carbo vii Cant, Graph, Helon,, Hydr.. Ign,
Kicos , Lye: Lyssin; Mere, Nat. m., Nit. ac., Rhus t.,
Robin.; Sep., Thuya.

Burning, heat) 9 fcon , Alum. *Antipyr.;. Aur, mur.; Bell.,
Rerh, iv. Bows Canth., Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Ferr. p.,
Wydrovet, wah bich | Kali c¢ 3) Areos.; Lye; Lyssin;
Ver. ¢. Mere; Nat. m53Nit. ac., Pop, ¢; Pulex; Sep,
Spiranth., Sad

Coldness Bor. ac.

Cysts Lyes Pulss: Rhod., Sil

Dryness = A\con , Ame; Beli, Ferr. pos Lye, Lyssin; Nat
m., Spuanth. See Inflammation.

Flatus, emission Brom., Lacie. Gye; Nux mj; Sang.

Inflammation (vaginitis) — Acute: — -Icon., Apis; Arm.
Ars. Beli, Can s.3 Cunth., Cum; Con; Crot. t.. Gels;
Helon., Hyd:.. Kali a; Kalo m.; Areos., Mere. c.; Rhus
t.3 Sep. Sul; Thuya.

Inflammation, chronic - Ars. Bor; Cale ¢ . Gtind.; Uydr ;
Jod 3; Kreos ; Kale mo: Merce; Nit. ac.; Puls.; Sep.; Sul.
see Vulvitis. .

Itching -— \nupys, Arundo, Aur. omur.; Culud.; Canth ;
Con Felon,, Tydrocot.; Hydr.; Areos., Merc; Scrophul.;
Neps Sil: Sul See Pruntus Vulve,

Pain, pressing Bell, Cale. cj Chimaph.; Cinnab.; Ferr.

P red. jktann. ’

ain, stinging, stitching, shooting, tearing -- . “amex
Cim : cre Rieos ; Rhus t., Sab. ‘Sepe Yers, Camex,
FEMALE S1\t AL S\ STEM ast

Pain, throbbing -- }: 1!

Prolapsus vagine - \Ium; Fell Ferry Giranat. Kreos.:
Lach; Lappa, Nux mj; Nux vw. Ocimum, sop, Stan,
Staph.; Sul. ac

Sensitiveness (vaginismus) Joon,, Aur.; Bell, Berbo +.
Cact., Caul, Caust: Carbo vi. Cin, Coce ¢ Coffe. Con
Ferr iod.; Ferr. m.; Ferr op, Gels., Ham 5 Jan, Kroos i
Lyssin; Mag. p., Murcx; Nit. ac, Nux v5 Orig; Plat.
Plumb ; Sil; Staph., Tar. bh, Thuaya.

VULVA-LABIA — Abscess (vulvo-vaginal): Jf. Bell View.
Hep., Kreos., lod.; Lach Vere , Puls, Rhus to sep.
Siu; Sul.

Burning con; Am. c* Awe. Bov, Canth , Carbo ov,
Graph., Helon.; Kreos, Lye, Mere; Puls; Rhus t.,
Sep.: Sil; Sul, Thaya See Pain

Cancer -- Ars., Con; Thuya.

Dryness-- foon., Bell, Cale. oc. Lye, Tar be. See Vulvins

Eczema —- Rhus t.

Erysipelas, with edema -- 4:5

Hair falling out —-Merc.; Nat. ac

Hyperesthesia, soreness .\con: Bell, Cim., Cour Cam,
Fer. iod ; Gels  Hep.: lan; Kali bro. Areos. Mago op
Mere, Nit. ac, Nux v.. Petrol, Plat, Sep., Subs Thisva,
Tiha; Zinc. m.

Inflammation (vulvitis) eloom, Nmbrat ud piss Nass Bell ;
Brom., Cal oc. Canth, Carba i.. Chimaph , Coccus;
Collins... Cop. Bupren: Gossyp., Graph, tam. Melon ,
Hydr.; Kreos, Lye, Mag p., Mere. ¢., Wer.. Oamum;
Plat.; Pulk: Rhus divers, Rhus t, Sep., Siley Sol,
Thuya.

Vulvitis, follicular, herpetic Ars: Crot t.: ODule.; Mere;
Nat. m; Robin., Sep... Spiranth . Thaya: Ncrophvl.

Itching (pruritus) Ager. lmbra, Apis, cirs., Arundo,
Berb. v.: Bove; (dad Cake o« , Canth., Carb. ac,
Carbo v.; Caust.. Coff  Collas, Con Conv.; Cop
Dule.; Fagop.; Ferr. wd.. Graph , Grind., Guaco; Helon
Hydr.; Kah bich , Kah br: Kah ci Kreos, lik ti Live.
Merc., Mez., Nat. wi. Nit ace; Ong., Petrol, Picr. ac
Plat., Radium, Rhus div: Rhus t., Rhus v. Serophul.
Sep., Spiranth > Staph: Sul, Tar oo; Tan hh; haya;
Urt.; Xerophy]

Pain— Apis: Ars... Bell, Berh oo Cale ©; Can s., Con,
Ferr.; Kali c; Areess lyc., Mel; Merc c., Phas, Sab;
Sep., Sul See Vulvite

Papules, pustules © Cav. a. Graph.; Sep., Sul.

Polypi - Bell: Cale c.; Phos. Teuer.s Thuya

Sensation, ae if wet - Eup. purp: Petrol

joreness, tenderness jaon, Ambra: Beli., Tanst.; Conv.;
Graph ; Helon.; Wep. Krees; Owa ge pell; Plate: -
Sul; Tar bh; Ure. & pels Plat; Sep.;

Soreness, with ulcers-- \rg. n.;  Hep.;) Mere; Nit. ac.;
Thuya ’

Sweat, offensive — Calc. ¢.; Fagop.; Lye; Merc.; Petrol.;
Sul.; Thuya,

Uleers Ars.; Aur. m on. Graph.; Mur. ac; Nit. ac; Sop;
yph.

Varices -- Calc. c.; Carbo viz Lye

Warts -- Aw. mur.; Med... Thitya
CIRCULATORY SYSTEM

ARTERIES — AORTA — Inflamed, acute (aortitis): Acon.;
Apis: Glon ;_ Tub.

Aorta, inflamed, chronically (aortitis chronica) —Adren.;
Ant. ars; Ars iod.; Aur. ars; Aur.; Cact.; Chin. 8.3
Cupr; Glon.; Kali iod.; Lyc.; Nat. t0d.; Spig.; Stroph.

Aortitos, ulcerative —- Acon.; Ars.; Chin_ s. .

Aorta, pain -—— Adren.; Strych See Angina Pectoris.

Arteritis —- Ars.; Catbo v.; Echin.; Kali iod.; Lach.; Nat,
tod., Sec.

Atheroma of arteries (arterio-sclerosis) - Adren.; Am.
sod; Am. vanad; Ant. ars.; Ars.; Ars. iod.; Aur. tod ;
Aur; Aur. mo n.; Bar. c.; Rar. m.; Cact.; Cale fi.; Chin,
s, Con.; Crat.; Ergotin; Glon.; Todothyr.; Kali iod ; Kali
sal ; Lach.; Lith. c;. Nat 1t0d.; Phos.; Plumb tod , Plumb
m.; Polygon. az; Sec.; Stront c.; Stront wd, Stroph ;
Vanad. Sce Interstitial Nephritis.

Carotids, pulsate 4con; Amyl; Bell.; Cact.;  Cinch.;
Fagop.; Glon.; Val. t.; Sab.; Ver. 1. See Pulse.

Circulation, sluggish - Eth; Cale c.; Calc. p., Carbo an.;
Carbo v.; Cim; Cinnam.; Ferr. p.; Gels, Lol; Nat. mj;
Rhus t.; Sil. Sec Heart.

Congestion of blood (local) -~ Acon ; Amyl; Aur.; Bell:
Cact ; Cale, c.; Centaur.; Cupr. m; Ferr. m.; Ferr. p.;
Gadus mor.; Glon.; Kali 10d.; Lil. t., Loniec.; Mel.;
Millet; Phos.; Sang.; Sep.; Sil.; Spong.; Stellar.; Sul ;

er ou,

Degeneration, fatty — Phos. See Heart.

Dilatation-Aneurism — Acon ; Ars. iod.; Bar. c.; Bar. m.;
Cact.; Cale. fl; Cale, p; Glon.; Iod.; Kals tod ; Kal.;
Lach.; Lith. c; Lye.; Lycop.; Morph.; Nat. tod., Plumb.;
Puls ; Spig ; Spong.; Ver. 7.

Aneurism, capillary — Cak. f.; Fluor. ac; Tub

Aneurism, pain -—Cact. See Angina Pectoris

RUPTURE of artery (apoplexy) — Acon; Apis: Arn.; Bar.
cs Bell ? Cact.; Camph ; Caust; Chenop: Cinch.; Croc.;
Cup. m.; Formica; Glon.; Hydroc. ac.; Hyos.; Junip. v.;
Rah br.; Kali iod.; Wack; Laur; Nux v.; Of.; Phos;
Sep; Stram.; Sul.; Ver. a.: Ver. v.

Rupture of artery; post-hemiplegia--- rn, Ars.; Bar. c.;
Bell.; Caust.; Cocc.; Cupr. m.; Cur.; Lach; Nux v.;
Phos.; Plamb.; Rhus t.: Vipera; Zinc. m.

Rupture of artery: predisposition to, or threatened —
dieon , Arn.; Ars.; Bar. c.; Bell; Cale. fl.; Gels.; Glon.;
Guaco; Hyos.; Lach; Laur; Nux v.; Op.; Phos.;
Stront c .

HEART -— Action tumultuous, violent, labored: Absinth.;
dcon, Hse; Agar.; Ammon,; Amvl, Ars; Aur, Bell:
Bry : Cact., Cath. se; Cim.; Colch., Conv.; Ephedra;
Gels: Glon, ffelod.; Theris; Kal; Lil t.: Lvcop.: Nat.
Baise YO" » Prun. sp.; Pyr.; Spig.; Spong.; Ver. v. See
CIRCULATORY SYSTEM 953

AFFECTIONS in general — .4con.; <tdon, v.; Am. c.y Am.
m.; Amyl, Apoc; Arn; Ars. 1cd_ Ars., Aur. mj; Aur.
mur.; Bar. c.; Bell; Benz. ac.; Brv., Cact., Cale. ars.;
Cale. '; Carbo v.; Cim.; Cinch.; Coca; Colch ; Collins.;
Conv.; Coromila; Crat, Crot, Digitaline; Dig.; Ferr. m.;
Fer. p.: Gels.; Gion.; Grind; Hydroc. ac; Iberis; Ign.;
Tod.; Kah c¢; Kah chlor, Kal., Lach., Laur.; Lepid.;
Lil. t., Lith c.; Lycop.; Mere. c.; Moseh.; Naya; Nat. 10d ,

Nux v; Or. ac., Phaseol., Phos ; Piloc.; Scilla;

Spig.; Spong.; Stroph; Strych., Sumb.; Thyr.;

er. v. See Separate Diseases of Heart.

Affections, rheumatic — Acuon.; Aur; Benz. ac.;_ Bry.;

Cact.: Caust ; Cim.; Colch.; Ign., Led.; Lith. ¢.; Lyeop ;
Kal., Naja; Phyt; Rhus ¢, Spig; Ver. v.
Affections, with hemorrhoids —- Cact.; Colbns.; Dig.

CYANOSIS — Acctan.; Am. c; Ant ars.; Ant t., Ars.; Benz.
nit.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Crot.; Cupr;  D1g.; Hydroe.
ac.; Tach; Laur; ILycop; Mere cy., Nat. nit; Phos;
Piloc.; Psor; Rhus t, Samb.; Tab; Zine. m.

DEBILITY, weakness —-- A\cetan ; Acct. ac; Adon. v ; Adren;
amc; Am.m. Ant ara; Ars; Ars tod; Aur; Cact;
Calc. ars , Camph ; Carbo v ; Cinch.; Conv ; Crat., Dig ;
Diose 3 Eel serum; Euphorbia, Ferr.; Grind; Helod.;
Hvdroc. ac; Ibens, Kali c: Kal; Gach; Lal. ty Lycop.,
Morph.: Mosch; Nertum; Nit ac.; Nux m.: Phaseol ;
Plumb.; Prun sp; Psor, Sarevl ac; Scilla; Spart.,
Sprig; Stroph., Tab; Thyr, Ver. a.

Debility, weakness, muscular, “heart failure’ — Adon. v.;
Adren.; Agaricin; Alcohal, Amyl; Ant. t.; Atrop.; Caf-
feine; Camphorated oil; Cocaine; Conv.; Crat.; Digitahne;
Dig; Ether; Glon Oxygen inhalation; Sacchar. of;
Saline infusion; Serum ang.; Spart.; Stroph.; Strych. s.;

era

Debility, weakness, nervous Adren.; Cact.; /beris; Ign.;
Lal. 0; Lith 3 MWosch.; Naja; Piloc.; Prun  v.; Spart.;
Spig, Tab; Val

Debility, weakness. with dropsy = Acctan.. Adon. @.,
Apoc.; Ars. iod; Ars., Asclep syr.; Cact.; Caffeine; Col-
lins.; Conv.; Dig.: Iberis; Lach.; Lycop ; Oleand , Scilla;
Spart.; Stroph. See Generalities.

DEGENERATION, fatty ~- Adon. ast; Adon v.; Arn; Ars.
iod.; Ars.; Avr.; Bar. c.; Cim; Crat.; Cupr. ac.; Fucus;
Kak c.; Kali feroc.; Kal.: Phos. ac.; Phos.; Physost.;
Phyt., Sacchar. of.; Stroph.; Strych ars., Strych. p.;
Vanad,

DILATATION — Adon. v; Am. c.; Ars, iod.; Ars., Bar. c.;
Cact.; Cim.: Conv, Crat.; Dig.; Gels.; Iberis; Naya:
Phascol., Phos,; Physost.; Prun. sp.; Spart. s.; Spig.;
Stroph ; Tab.; Ver. v. See Debility, muscular, ,

DYSPNOEA (cardiac) — con. fer ; Acon.; Adon. v.; Adren.;

m. c.; Apis; Arn.; Ars; Ars. iod.; Aur. m.: Cact:
Cale. ars.; Carbo v; Chin. ars.; Cim.; Collins; Conv.;
Dig.; Glon.; Iber‘s; Kali n.; Kal.; Lach; Laur.; Lycop.;
Magnol.; Naja; Ox. ac; Op; Quebracko; Spig.: Spong.;
Stroph.; Stiych ars, Viscum. See Respiratory System.

,

are

954 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM

HYPERTROPHY - -fcon.; cirn.; Ais; Aur; Bell. Brom., Gact..
Caffeine: Caust., Cereus; Conr., Crat., Dig. Glon,
Iberts, lod, Kal; Lil t.3 Lycop. Naja, Phos.: Phyt,
Rhus t.; Spig.; Spong.: : Stroph ; Strych. ars., Ver. wv,
Viscum

Hypertrophy uncomplicated, of athletes — Arn.; Brom.;
Caust.: Rhus _t

Inflammation (ENDOCARDITIS) —Acute: icon, Ar.
Bell.; Cact ; Colch.; Conv.; Dig; Lech.; Magnol.: Naja,
Pho: Shia., Sponeg ; Tab.; Ver. v. Sce Pericarditis:

Endocarditis, mahgnant - -.\con.; | Ars.; Chin. s.,  Crot;
Tach , Vipera. . oo

Endocarditis, rheumatic — .\con.; Bell.; Bry., Colch , Wali
c; hal., Rhus t; Spig.

Hydropericardium ~Apis; Apoc.; .A18s.; lod., Lach,

MYOCARDITIS — .\con ; Adon. v.; Ars iod.; Aur. mar;
Cact.; Crat.; Dig.; Tod.; Lach.; Phos.; Stroph., Vipera
Sce Weakness, Degeneration.

PERICARDITIS, acute --dceon.; Ant. ais; Apis, crs, Aslon
t.; Bell; Bry.; Cact.; Can. 9; Canth., Colch, Dig.; 1
Kah c.; Wah 10d.; Kal.; Magnol.; Mere. c.; Mere: Naia:
Nat. m, Phaseol.; Salla, Spig , Spong., "Sul; Ver. a 3
yer. Ve.

Pericarditis, chronic — Ap, .fur. wd.; Cale, fl; Kah oc,
Scilla, Spig., Sul

Pericarditis, rheumatic --- \con.,  .\nac; Bry.; Colchicine;
Colch., Crat; Kal.; Rhus t.; Spig.

NEUROSES .- Aron... ‘Adren ; Cact.; Cham.; Cinch: Cof,
Fert.. Gels., Jber . Ign., Nach.; Lil. t.; Lycop., Musch ,
Nux i.° Prun. v.;  Seutel; Sep.; Spiw.; Tab.; Ver. a;
Zine. m.

Neuroses, irritable from influenza — Iberis; Spart. s.

Neuroses, irritable from tea, coffee — Agaricine.

Neuros irritable from tobacco —- -igaricine, Agn.; Ars,
Calad.; Cont, Ing., Kal.; Nua v.; Phos.; Spig., Staph ;
Stroph,, Tabi Ver. a.

Neuroses, irritable from suppressed hemorrhoids — Collins.

Neuroses, irritable from utero-ovarian disease 9 Cim.: Lil t.

Neuroses, irritable tremulousness, from scarlet fever --
ich,

PAIN - \bus on.) oom tdon ou, Amyl Ayis: airs.:
Aster; Bry., Cact., Cale fi., Canth.; Cereus, Cereus
serp. Cam: Coff.; Colch., Conv.; Crat.; > Daphne; /)g.;
Diose.; Ferr tart., Hemator., Hvdroc. ac; bers; Nal,
Lach; Latrod ; lepid., Ll t.. Lith ¢. LVob inf; Lyeop :
Magnol.: Med.; Naya, Onosm; Or. ac, Ov. go op;
Paconta;: Pap mg | Ptel: Spig.; Spony., Stroph., Syph,
Tah. Ther.. Thyr.; Ver «.. Zine v.

Pain constricting, as if squeezed in vise ikon Adun v:
-Amyl, Ain; Ars.: Cact: Cadm. s; Cale. ars; Coccus;
Coleb ; lodof Ted.: Kaho: Lach: Laur. Lib ot,
Lycop Mag p.: Magnol; Nux m3 Pred; Spong.; Thyr.

Neuralgic — ANGINA PECTORIS — whoon, Adren.: > Amy,
Are. cv: dira., Ars iod.; Ars: Aur, mur.: Tasm.; Cact >
Camph. : Cereus; Chin ars.; Cim.; Cocaine, Conv.; Crat.,
Crots Cnr ac, Cape. m.; Digs Dose « + Glon . Hemctoa.: 4

954 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM

HYPERTROPHY - -fcon.; cirn.; Ais; Aur; Bell. Brom., Gact..
Caffeine: Caust., Cereus; Conr., Crat., Dig. Glon,
Iberts, lod, Kal; Lil t.3 Lycop. Naja, Phos.: Phyt,
Rhus t.; Spig.; Spong.: : Stroph ; Strych. ars., Ver. wv,
Viscum

Hypertrophy uncomplicated, of athletes — Arn.; Brom.;
Caust.: Rhus _t

Inflammation (ENDOCARDITIS) —Acute: icon, Ar.
Bell.; Cact ; Colch.; Conv.; Dig; Lech.; Magnol.: Naja,
Pho: Shia., Sponeg ; Tab.; Ver. v. Sce Pericarditis:

Endocarditis, mahgnant - -.\con.; | Ars.; Chin. s.,  Crot;
Tach , Vipera. . oo

Endocarditis, rheumatic — .\con.; Bell.; Bry., Colch , Wali
c; hal., Rhus t; Spig.

Hydropericardium ~Apis; Apoc.; .A18s.; lod., Lach,

MYOCARDITIS — .\con ; Adon. v.; Ars iod.; Aur. mar;
Cact.; Crat.; Dig.; Tod.; Lach.; Phos.; Stroph., Vipera
Sce Weakness, Degeneration.

PERICARDITIS, acute --dceon.; Ant. ais; Apis, crs, Aslon
t.; Bell; Bry.; Cact.; Can. 9; Canth., Colch, Dig.; 1
Kah c.; Wah 10d.; Kal.; Magnol.; Mere. c.; Mere: Naia:
Nat. m, Phaseol.; Salla, Spig , Spong., "Sul; Ver. a 3
yer. Ve.

Pericarditis, chronic — Ap, .fur. wd.; Cale, fl; Kah oc,
Scilla, Spig., Sul

Pericarditis, rheumatic --- \con.,  .\nac; Bry.; Colchicine;
Colch., Crat; Kal.; Rhus t.; Spig.

NEUROSES .- Aron... ‘Adren ; Cact.; Cham.; Cinch: Cof,
Fert.. Gels., Jber . Ign., Nach.; Lil. t.; Lycop., Musch ,
Nux i.° Prun. v.;  Seutel; Sep.; Spiw.; Tab.; Ver. a;
Zine. m.

Neuroses, irritable from influenza — Iberis; Spart. s.

Neuroses, irritable from tea, coffee — Agaricine.

Neuros irritable from tobacco —- -igaricine, Agn.; Ars,
Calad.; Cont, Ing., Kal.; Nua v.; Phos.; Spig., Staph ;
Stroph,, Tabi Ver. a.

Neuroses, irritable from suppressed hemorrhoids — Collins.

Neuroses, irritable from utero-ovarian disease 9 Cim.: Lil t.

Neuroses, irritable tremulousness, from scarlet fever --
ich,

PAIN - \bus on.) oom tdon ou, Amyl Ayis: airs.:
Aster; Bry., Cact., Cale fi., Canth.; Cereus, Cereus
serp. Cam: Coff.; Colch., Conv.; Crat.; > Daphne; /)g.;
Diose.; Ferr tart., Hemator., Hvdroc. ac; bers; Nal,
Lach; Latrod ; lepid., Ll t.. Lith ¢. LVob inf; Lyeop :
Magnol.: Med.; Naya, Onosm; Or. ac, Ov. go op;
Paconta;: Pap mg | Ptel: Spig.; Spony., Stroph., Syph,
Tah. Ther.. Thyr.; Ver «.. Zine v.

Pain constricting, as if squeezed in vise ikon Adun v:
-Amyl, Ain; Ars.: Cact: Cadm. s; Cale. ars; Coccus;
Coleb ; lodof Ted.: Kaho: Lach: Laur. Lib ot,
Lycop Mag p.: Magnol; Nux m3 Pred; Spong.; Thyr.

Neuralgic — ANGINA PECTORIS — whoon, Adren.: > Amy,
Are. cv: dira., Ars iod.; Ars: Aur, mur.: Tasm.; Cact >
Camph. : Cereus; Chin ars.; Cim.; Cocaine, Conv.; Crat.,
Crots Cnr ac, Cape. m.; Digs Dose « + Glon . Hemctoa.: 4

CIRCULATORY SYSTEM 955

Hydroc. a., Kah ec; Kah acd; Kal., Latrod., Lil, &;
Lith. c; Lob, infl.; Mag. p.. Magnol., Morph.; Naya,
Nat. tod., Nat. mt.; Nur wv; Oleand.; Ox. ac., Phos.;
Phyt.; Pip. nig.: Prun. sp.; Samb.; Spart.; Spig., Spong.,
Staph.; Stront. c.; Stront. 10d.; Tab.; Thyr., Ver. v.,
Zinc. v.

From abuse of coffee — Coff.

From abuse of stimulants — Nux v.; Spig.

From muscular origin —-Cupr.; Hydroc. ac.

From organic heart disease — irs. 1od., Cact., Cale fi;
Crat.; Kal.; Nat. iod.; dtront. 10d.; Tab,

From rheumatism — Cim; [Laiti. c.

From straining, overlifting -- -irn., Carbo an.; Caust.

From tobacco — Kal.; [.iJ. t.; Nux v; Spig.; Staph., Tab

Pseudo-angina pectoris — Aconitine; Cact.; Lal t.; Mosch.;
Nux v.; Tar h. See Pain.

Precordial oppression, anxiety, heaviness - f.on., Adon.
v., Adren., ase; Agar: Am. oc; Amyl; Apis;
trs., Ars. tod, Aspar.; Aur; Brom; Bry.; Cart; Cale.
ars.; Cale. c; Camph, Carbo v.; Cereus; Cim.; Cobch.;
Collins , Cotyled.; Crat.; Cupr ; Dig., Diose.; Fert.; Glon.;
Hematox.; Hydroc. ac.; Tberts, Ign; Iod.; Upec.; Kal;
Lach., Latrod, Laur., Lik t., Litho; Lycop.; Magnol.;
Naya, Nat ats; Primula v; Puls ; Sapon.; Spig.; Spong.;
Tab.; Thea, Thyr; Vanad.; Ver. v

Shooting, down left shoulder, arm, to fingers -—— Acon., Arn.;
Asper.; Bism., Cact , Cim.; Crot.; Nal; Latrod.; TLepid.;
Naja; Ox ac, Rhus tt, Spig ; Tab.

Shooting, from apex to base — Med

Shooting, from base to apex — Syph.

Shooting, lancinating, tearing — .\rs.; Bell.; Cact., Cereus;
Cim ; Colech ; Daphre, Glon.; /beris, Kal; Latrod.: Lit.
t: Lith cs Magnol; Menthol; Ox. ac.; Paronia; Phyt;
Spig., Syph., Tab. See Neuralgia

Stitching, cutting --.\bies n.; Acon., Anac.; Ars; Asclep.
t: Bry. Cact., Can ind ; Caust.; Cereus; Dig.; Iberis;
Aah c., Kali n.. Lith, ¢., Naja; Sprig.

PALPITATION — -lbies ¢ ; Acon.; Adon. v.; Agar; Agari-
cine; Amyl; Apis; frag on., Ars.: Asaf.; Aur. m.; Aur.
mut.: Bar. c; Zell., Cact., Calc. ars., Cale. c.; Camph.;
Canth , Can. ind.; Carbo v.; Chin. ars.; Cim.; Ciach.;
Coca, Coce ; Coff,; Colch,; Con.; Conv., Crat; Cupr.;
Ingitaline; Dig. Fagop.; Ferrum; Ferr. p.; Gels; Glon.;
Hydr.: Hydroc ac.; Lberts; Ign.; Iod., Kali c.; Kali ferr.
cy.: Kal, Lack ; Vaur.; Lil. t.; Lob, infl.; Lycop.; Masch.>
Naja, Nat. m; Nernum; Nux m.; Nur ov; Oteand: OL.
J. as.j Ox. ac.; Phaseol.; Phos ac.; Phos.; Plat.; Puls.
Pyr, Sec. Sep, Spig.; Spong., Sul., Sumb.; Tab.; Thea:
Thyr.. Val; Ver. v.; Zine. ’

CAUSE — Anamia, vital drains: Ams Cinch; Dig.; Fer.
ved. Wali c.; Kah ferrocy.; Nat. m; Phos. ac.: ;
Puls., Spig.; Ver a. ‘ , ¢.7 Phos ;

Belaren: growing too fast — Phos. ac.
spepsia-— Abies n.; Arg on., Cact.; Carho 2° Cinch:
Coca; Coff; Diose.; Lye; Hydroc. ac; Nur cae Pals
Prun v.; Sep.; Spi; Tab.

956 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM

Emotional causes: .fcon ; Ambra; Anac ; Cact.5 Calc. ars.;
Cham.; Coff ; Ge Is. ; Hydroc. ac.; Jgn.; Tod. ‘Lach.; Lith.
ce; Mosch., Nux m.; Nux v, Op. Plat., Sep., Tar. h.

Eruption suppressed — Calc. c. .

Exertion, even slightest- - Bell.; Brom.; Cim.; Conv.; Dig.;
Ibens, Jod., Nat. m.; Sarcol. ac, Thyr.
jef —-Jgn, Phos ac

Heart-strain —- Arn , Bor.; Caust.; Coca.

Nervous irritation —- Atrop.; Cact.; Coff.; Glon.; Hydroc.
ac, Hyos, Ign.; Kali c; Kah Bs lal. t; Lycop.; Mag.
p. Mosch, Naya; Sep.; Spig.; Sumb.

Prolonged brain work, sexual excesses — (Coca.

Tea drinking — Cinch.

Tobacco — Agar; Ars.; Gels.; Nux v.; Phos.; Stroph

Uterine disease — Conv.; Ij] t.

Worms -— spig

CONCOMITANTS — With anguish, restlessness: .!:0n ; 7Eth.;
Ais.3 Cale. c+: Coff, Ign... Lach.; Nat om. Phascol ,
Phos., Puls., Sapon.; ‘Sing . Stong., Va. a. Zinc m

With burning at heart -- Kali c

With choking in throat — Iberis; Lach.; Naja.

With dim vision — Puls.

With dyspnea — Am, c.; Cact; Dig.; Glon.; Glycerin;
Lach; Oleand; Ox ac, Phos, Spig.; Spong., Ver a3
Zinc. m

With face red —- Agar ; Bell.

With fainting -.Acon.; Cham., Lach, Nuvom, Petrol, Tab.

With fetor oris — Spig.

With flatulence -~ 47g) 1 Cact > Carbo vi Nar ov

With headache —- Aith.; Beii.; Lith. ¢ .

With heart-labored, reverberates in head - Bell.; Glon.;
Smg.; Spong.

With heart weak —- Coca; Dig.

With hot feeling, uncomfortable - - Ant. t.; Cale. c.; Kali
ec; Petrol.

With ain, precordial -~Acon » Ars.; Cact.; Cham.; Caust.;

dlydroc. ac.; Taur.; Mag. m3; Stig. ; Spong.

With sleepiessness —Cim.; Coca, Jgn., Spig

With stomach, heavy feeling in -Upas

With stomach, sinking in — Cim

With tinnitus, mental depression, anorexia, chest oppression
-~ Coca.

With trembling -— Asaf ; Lach; Rhus t.; Sul. ac.

With urination copious — Coff.

With uterine soreness — Conv.

With vertigo— Adon. v.; Aith.; Cact; Corunilla; Iberis:
Spig.

With weakness, empty feeling in chest — Olvand.

AGGRAVATION — After eating: -—— Calc c.; Lyc.; Nat. mj
Nur aw; Puls.

a ment of meneas -— Cact.; Crot; Spong.
night — drs ; Cact., Cale. c.; Iberis; Ign.; Lil. t.; oH
Nat. m.; Phos; Tab. gnj Til ts Lye

During sleep —- Alston.; Am. ¢.; Can. ind.; Iberis; Phos.
ac.; Spong.
CIZCCLATORY SYSTEM 957

From least motion — .Acon.; Bell.; Cact., Calc. ars.; Dig.;
Ferr.; Iberis; Lil t, Nat m.; Spzg.

From lying down -—— 41s. Kali c.; Ivach.; Nat m.: Nux v.;
Sep ; Spig.; Thy.

From lying on left side- Bar. c.;  Cact.; Lac c.; Lach;
Lil. t., Lye; Nat. m: Phos, Puls.; Tab ; Thea.

From lying on right side -— Jumen, Arg. n.

From mental exertion - - Cale ars

From rising —- Cact.

From sitting — Mag m., Phos; Rhus t

From sitting bent forward - Kal.

From stooping forward - Sjig

From thinking of it -— Bar. c, Gels, Oa. ac

In morning on waking Kali c3 Nux sv

AMELIORATION — Lying on right side: J,ac ¢; ‘Tab

Motion -— Ferr, m, Gels.; Mag om

PULSE — Full, round, bounding, strong, feit all over: .Jion ;
“Ese; Am om. wlavl, Antipyr.; Ain, dun, Bar. oc.
Bell; Bry.; Cact., Cale c. Canth., Coff.: Cups ; Fagop.,
Ferr. m, Glon, fot Li t, Lycop; Onowm , Of.,
Thysost., Prloc; Voth... Puls; Sab., Spig, Ver. v.

Intermittent — Acon, -Ifec., Bapt., Cact, Carbo uw, Cinch ;
Colch., Conv.; Crat, Dry  Fetr mur., Jberts; lgn.; Kals
©, Kal, li t, Lyeop, Mere co, Mere. cy., Nat. m.;
Nux om. Phos ac. Pip omig., Rhus t; Sep., Spry.,
Stroph , Tab. Teach, Thea; oe a, Perow, Zme om.

Intermittent, every third te seventh beat Digs Maur. ac

Irregular — Accian Acon,, Adon ove; Adren 3) Agaricine,
Antipy: ; Apoe: Arn; rv clrs. wod., Aur., Beli; Cact.;
Caffeine: Camph., Cim 5 Cinch, Conv; Crat, Dig., Eel
serum; Terr. m3 Gels, Glon., Hydroc ac, Jbens, Ign;
Kah c, Kal; Lach, Laur., Lik t., Lycop.; Mur. ae;
Naja, Nat. m, Nat. sul. Nux m., Phaseol,; Phos ac;
Piloc.; Puls; Ris t. Sang, Sec, Scrum ang; Spat,
Spig., Stroph, Strych. ars.; Strych p35; Sumb; 7ab.;
Thea; Ver. a., Ver o Zine m

Rapid (tachycardia) itbtes ne, Aceon; Adon v.35 Adren.;
ign, Ant. ars; dnt tf. Antipyt , Apoe; Arn; Ars.
1od.; Bell. Bry.; Cact  Canth : Carbo vis Coff.: Cotch.;
Ceilins.; Cont; Crat.; Dig; Eel serum; Fert. py Gels ;
Glon ; Jberis: Kal: Kah chlor., Lach; Latrod; Med;
Lil. t.; Lycop., Meie c., Morph., Mur. ac.; Naja; Nat,
mj; Phascol; Phcs., Phyt.. Piloc.; Pyr.; Rhod.; Rhus ¢.;
Sec; Sep. Spong: Stroph . Tab.; ‘Percb.. Thea; Thvr.,
Ver. a; Ver. ve dee Weak.

Rapid in morning - Ars, Sul.

Slow (bradycardia) dines n Adon. vi, Adtems JEse.:
Apoc.; Cact.; Camph , Cai. ind.; Canth ; Caust.; Colch.;
Cupr.; Dig., Eserine; Gels.; Helod; WHelleb.;  Kal.;
Latrod.; Lupul.; Lycopers.; Morph.; Myr.; Naja; Op.;
Pip. nig.; Rhus t, Spe: Tab; Ver. a; Ver co. See
Weak.

Slow, alternating with rapid -- Dig: Gels., Jod.: Morph

Soft, compressible — \cal.; irs... Bapt; Caffeme, Conv;
Ferr. m; Ferr. p., Gels., Kah c;'Phos , Plumb.; Ver. a.;
Ver. i. Sie Weak
958 CIRCULATORY SYSTEN

Weak, fluttering, almost imperceptible — Acetan.; Acon.;
Adon, 7, Adren.: Eth.: Agarcince, All; Am m.; Ant.
ars.; Ant. t.: Apis: Ars.; Ars. 10d, Awr.; Aspar.;
Bar. mi: Cact, Caffeine; Camph., Carb. ac.; Carbo v.;
Cim: Colch. Collins; Conv., Crat; Crot; D1g.: Fel
serum; Ferr m., Gels, Hydroc. ac.; Hyoscin. hydrobr.;
Tod.; Kah « , Kali chior.; Aali n: Kal; Lach.; Latrod.,
Laur., Lycop.; Mere ¢.. Merc cv, Morph.; Mur. ac.,
Naya: Op, Ox ac.: Phaseol ; Phos ac.; Phos.; Physost.;
Plumb, Pyr.; Rhus t; Sang: Sapon., See; Spart,
Spiq., Sul, Tab.. Tercb.; Thyr.; Ver a, Ver. v3 Vis-
cum, Zine m.

SENSATIONS — As if drops were falling from heart: (an «

As if heart were burning - kali c. Op, Tar h.

As if heart were ceasing its beat— Antipyr; Chin. ars;
Cim.; Crat.; Dig, Lob ainfl.; Phascol., Trifol

As if heart were ceasing its beat, then started suddenly ---
Aur, Conv: Lil. t., Sep.

As if heart were ceasing its beat when moving about, must
keep still — Cocaine, Dig

As if heart were ceasing its beat when resting, must
move about - Gels; Trifol

As if heart were cold- Cale c3 Carbe an, Graphs Helod.,
Kali bich., Kaho om, Kahn; Tal t, Nat om.: Petrol.

As if heart were fluttering ~ Absinth., -lon , ‘unyl; Anoc ,
Asaf.; act. Cam, Conv.; Crot.: Ferr ; Glon.; lbents,
Kal, Lach: Lit, t., Lith. e: Mosch , Naya, Nat m, Nux
mj; Phaseal Phos ac: Physost ; Pyr; Spig ; Sul. ac;
Thea See Palpitation.

As if heart were purring —— Pyr.: Sug

As if heart were squeezed by iron hand - \in. cat) lod;
Tal. t., Subs Vanad.: Viscum.

As if heart were suspended by thread --- Wali ci Lech

As if heart were too full, bursting — - £sc , Amyl; Aur. m.;
Bell., Bufo; Cact., Cenchris; Collins, Conv; Glon.. Gly-
cerm, Tberis; Lact. ; > Lik to Pyr.; Spig . Stroph.; Sul.
Vanad

As if heart were twisted -- Lach., Tar. h.

Soreness, tenderness of heart —— fr, Cact, Camph ; Gels.;
Hematox.; Lith. ¢; Lycop.; Naja, Sec., Spig.

SYNCOPE — (fainting): Acetan . .\cct. ac; dceon. Alet ; Amyl;
Apis: Ars; Cact : Canti., Carbo +.: Cham.; Cim.; Cinch.,
Colhns.: Croc: Cupr.; Dig.; Ferr.; Glon; Ign: Ipec.,
Lach.; Lil. t.; Linar., Mag m.; Magnol ; Mosch.; Nux m.;
Nux v; Op.; Phascvol; Phos. ac; Phos; Puis.; Sep.;
Spig., Spong; Sul, Sumbd.: Tab.; Thyr.; Trill, Ver. a:

_ fh, Zine.
acope, lipothymia, hysterical ---.tcon | Apim v.: .\-af.,
‘Tham.: Cucc.; Cupr.; Jgn.; Lach.; Alosch., Nux m.

VALVULAR DISEASE — Acon.; Adon 7.. Apoc; aArs.; Ars.

in Aur, bry Aur. Ged; Cact., Cale a; *Camph.:

Dig., Fer; 3 Glon.:; od: Kal ; Lach ; Laur.; ; Lith,
oad vcore Naya; Qn ac., Vhos.; Plumb. : Rhus ts ‘Sang ; ;
prum ang.. Spig; Speng., Stigm.; Stroph., Thyr.; Vis:

\
CIRCULATORY SYSTEM 959

VEINS — Engorged, distended (plethora): Adon ov 3) Es.
Aloe; Ars.; Aur. Bellis; Cale ¢; Cale. hypoph ; Camph.
Carbo an., Carbo v, Chins; Collins., onv.: Dig.
Fluor ac.; If1am.; Lept.; Lye; Naz v.; Op; Plumb.
Pod ; Puls.: Sep.; Spong. i > Stellar.; Sud; Verb.

Veins engorged (pelvic) - Aloe, Collins ; Sep.; Sul

Veins engorged (portal) Ese: afloe; Colhins.;  Vept.
Lyc.; Nua cz, Sul.

Veins inflamed (phlebitis) -- \con.; Agar; dpis, Arn.; Ars.
Bell ; Crot.; Ham: Kali c., Lach.; Lye; Merc.; Phos
Puls., Stront c; Vipera.

Veins inflamed, chronic —-.\rn ; Merc.: l’uls.; Ruta

Veins varicosed -- Acct. ac; se; Alumen; Apis; Ars.
Bellis; Cale c¢; Cale. fl., Cale. tod., Carbo v.; Card. m.
Caust ; Collins.; Ferr. ps Mluor., ac.; Grapn.; Ham.; Kal
ars.; Lach.; Live, Magnif.: Mur, ac.; Nat. m; Pronia
Plumb; Polyg.; Puls.; Ran s; Ruta; Scirrhin; Sep.
Staph., Stront cs Sul; Sul ac; Vipera; Zine. m.
LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

AXILLAE — Abscess: Jicp.; Irid.; Jugl r.

Acne -- Carbo v.

Eczema --- laps; Nat. m.

Herpes — Catbo an.

Pain, in muscles, right side -— Prim. v.

Pain, with, or without swelling -Jugl c.

Sweat, profuse, offensive —— Bov ; Calc. c; Wep; Kali c;
Lye: Nit. ac.; Osm.; Petrol ; Sep.; Sil; Strych. p., Sul,
Tellur , Vhuya.

BACK — Bent, arch-like, opisthotonos: Angust.; Cic.; Nat.
s.: Nicot.; Op.; Phyt.; Strych See Convulsions (Nervous
System).

Burning between scapule -—Glon.; ve; Phos, Sul.

Burning-  -Alum., Ars., Aur. mur; Berb v.; Cale. fl.; Carbo
an.; Tlelod , Helon., Kali ps Lye: Med.; Nit. ac; Phos ,
Pur ac., Sep.; Tereb.; Ustil ; Xerophyl.

Burning in small. spots — Agar; /’hos, Ran b

Coldness between scapule - [bics c , 4m. m.; Helod.; Lach-
nanth ; Sep.

Coldness --- tives c.; Acon., Ars; Benz, ac., Gels.; Gins.;
Quass.; Raph. Sep.; Sovch . Vera.

Curvature (scoliosis) — Bar. c, Calc. c.; Phos, ac.; Phos.;
Sd Sul.

Eruption — Scp.

Lameness, stiffness —— Abrot ; Acon.; /Rsc.; Agar.; Am. m3;
Bell.; Berb. uv; Bry., Cale. ¢; Camph monobr.; Caust.;
Cam : Cupr. ars., Diose.; Dule.; Gins ; Helon ; Tlyper ; ;
Kah c, Kal p.; Kal; Lachnanth.; Led; Lyc; Nicot ;
Physost ; Phyt ; Rhus t, Ruta; parcel. ac; Sep.; Spong.;
Staph.; Sirych.; Sul. ac.’ Sul; Zing.

Numbness - cdoon., Berd. wu; Cale. p; Oa. ac.; Oxytr.; Sec.;
oul.

PAIN in general -—— Abrot.; Acon.; %sc.; Agar.; Alum; Am.
ce; Angust; Ant. t., Apts; vArg. m.: Arg. n.; Arn.; Bar.
c, Bell.; Berb «2, Bry.; Cale. ¢, Cale. p.; Can. snd.;
Carb, ac; Caul; Caust.; Cham; Chin. s.; Cie; Crm;
Cinch.; Cob.; Ceec.; Coalch.; Col; Dule; Eup. perf.;
Graph.; Guaco; Ham.; Helon.; Homar; Kali bich.; Kali
ce; Kali m.; Lach; Tat t: Lye; Mag. m.; Mag. 5
Merc.; Mez.; Mormord.; Nat c.; Nat. m; Nit. ac;
Naz «; Ox. ac.; Paraf; Petrol.; Phos. ac.: Pier. ac.;
Pule; Radiwm; Ran. ac.; Rhod.; Rhus t.; Ruta: Sao.;
Sang : Sarrac.; Scolop.; Sec.; Selen.; Sep, Sil.; Staph.;
‘Petia: Strych , Sul; Tar. h; Tellus. ; Ther.; Triost.:

pas; Vartol.; Wyeth.; Xerophyl.;: Zine. ‘m.
“eking, as if it would break and give out— Esr.; | Zth.;
Am. ™; Bell.; Can. ind; Cham.; Chei.; Dule.; Eup.
herr * aeipion: ae Ham.: Kali bich.: Kal.;_Kreos.;
1, an.; Ova t.; Phos.; Plat; Puls.; ’Rhus t;
Sorcol. ben Sanic.; Senega; Sil.; Trill,
LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM 961

Aching, dull, constant (backache) -~— Abies n , sc., Agur.;
Aloe; Am m.; Ant. t, Apoc.; Arg. m3; Arg. n.; Arn.;
Bapt.; Bellis; Berb. v , But. ac.; Cale. c.; Calc. fl.; Canth.;
Cim.; Cob.; Coccinel.; Coce ; Colch.; Conv.; Cupr. ars.;
Duilc.; Euonym.; Eupion; Ferr. p.; Gels.; Glycerin; Helon.;
Hyper.; Inula; Ipomaa, Kah c.; Kali iod.; Kal.; Kreos ;
Lach.; Ith. benz.; Lycoper.; Lyc.; Morph.; a ay
Nux v.; Ol. an.; O4. 4. as.; Ox. ac.; Pall.; Petrol.; Phos.
ac.; Phyt.; Picr. ac.; Piscidia; Pulex; Puls.; Radium; Rhus
t, Ruta; Sabal; Sab.; Senec.; Sep., Solan. lyc ; Solid.;
Staph., Still, Sul; Symphyt.; Tereb.; Upas; Vib. op.;
Viscum; Zinc. m.

Betwecn scapule — Aron.; Apomorph.; Asclep, t.; Bar. c.3
Calc. c.; Can ind.: Con.; Guaco; Guarac., Jugl c.; Kali
c.; Pod., Radium; Rhus ¢, Sep.; Sul.; Zinc, m,

Bruised — Acon., AEsc.; Agar.; Ant. t., Avn.; Bar. c.; Berb.
v.; Bry.; Cina; Dule.; Gins.; Graphs IJam., Mag. s.; Merc.;
Nat. m.; Nux v; Phos. ac.; Rhus t.; Ruta; Sil; Sul.;

eilur.

Crampy - Bell., Cim.; Cinch ; Cul; Grapa.; Iris; Mag. p.;
Ova t.; Sep.

Digging, cutting —- Sep

Drawing — Anac ; Carbo v.; Caust.; Kali c.; Lye.; Nux v.;
Rhus t; Sab., Sul.

Heaviness, dragging, weight — Asc; Aloc; Am. m.; Anac.;
Ant c.; Benz. ac; Berb. v.; Bov.; Colch.; Eup. purp.;
Helon.. Hydr.; Kali c.: Kreos.; Lol. t., Nat. s.; Paicr. ac;
Sep. See Femaie Sexual System.

Lancinating, drawing, tearing-- Alum; Asclep. t.; Berb.
v.; Colch.; Col.; Kali m; Lyc.; Mimosa; Nux v.; Scolop.;
Sen.; Sil.; Stellar.; Strych.

Lancinating, extends down thighs, legs-—- 4sc., Aur. mur.;
Bapt.; Berb. v., Carb. ac.; Coce.; Col.; Cur.; Ham.; Helon.;
Kah c.; Kali m.; Ox. ac.; Phyt.; Scolop.; Stellar., Tellur.;
Xerophyl.

Lancinating, extends to pelvis —- Arg. n; Aur. mur.; Berb.
v.; Cham.; Cim.; Eupion; Ham.; Sil.; Variel.; Viscum.

Lancinating, extends to pubes — Sab, Vib. op.; Xanth

Lancinating, extends upwards — Aspar ; Gels.

Paralytic — Cocc.; Kal p.; Nat. m; Sil.

Pressing, plug-like — sc ; Agar; Anac.; Aur. mur.; Benz,
ac.; Berb, v.; Colch.; Hyper.; Nat. m; Nux v.; Sep.;

s Tellur.

titching, piercing, pricking -. Agar ; Aloe; Alum.; Apis;
Berb. v.; wry.; Guaiac; Styper; Kah c. 3s Mere; Nats;
Sul.; Tellur.; Ther.
MODALITIES — AGGRAVATION: After emission: Cob,
After masturbation — Nux. v.; Phos. ac.; Staph.
t night— Aloe; Cale. c.; Lyc.; Merc.; Mez.; Nat. m;
Staph.; Viscum. , ,
From cold exposure — Acon.; Bry.; Rhod.; Sul.
From damp exposure — Dulc ; Phyt.; Rhus 1.
rom exertion Agar.; Berb. v.; Cocc.; Hyper.: i pes

F, Ox. ae. Sul. See Motion. yper.; Kali pi

‘rom jar, touch— Acos.; Berb. v.; Bry.; Kali bich.; Leb.
infl.; Mez.; Sil.; Tellur.
962 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

From lying down tell: Berb =, Niccol. s.; Nux v5
Rhus t

From motion, beginning — [ac c., Rhus t.

From motion, walking -— 4sc., Aloe: Ant. t ; Bell.; Bry.;
Caust.; Chel; Cinch.; Colch.; Kali bich.; Kah c.; Mez.;
Nus v, Ox, ac; Paraf.; Petrol.; Ran. ac.; Sep.; Sul.

From rest, sitting -4gar., Alum; Ant t; Bell.; Berb.
Can. ind; Cob; Ferr. mur.; Kali p.; Kreos.; Lac c ;
Mere; Nux v.; Rius t; Sep.; Sul; Zine. m.

From standing --- 4is:., Bell.; Nux v, Sarloc. ac; Sep.

From stooping -— 4:sc., Berb. v . Prose ; Guaco; Tellur.

From warmth — Agi s. Puls; Sul.

In morning — agar.: Berb v., Bry : Conv.; Kali c.; Nat. m.;
Nux v.: Petrol.; Phyt.; Ruta, Selen , Staph.

When rising from seat— .Tisc.; Arg nj; Berb v; Caust.;
Kah p; Lach, Sit; Swl.; Tellur

AMELIORATION — After rising: Kali c.; Ruta, Staph.

From bending backward -- Rhus t

From bending forward --- [ob int)

From emission - Zinc m.

From lying on abdomen - Acct ac

From lying on back - .nsc, Cob, Gnaph.; Nat m., Rhus
t; Ruta

From lying on something hard, or firm support --- Rupron,

Nat m,, Rhus t., Sep.

From lying, sitting -- Sep.

From motion, walking - -.Arg on; Tell; Caust.; Cob.; Ferr.
mut: J/elon ; Kaho om: Kreos.: Merce; Puls., Radium;
Rhus t.: Sep. Graph: Saks Zin om.

From rest 9 -¥isc : Colch . Nux vy Sit.

From sitting - Bell

From standing Arg oni Caust, Sul.

From urination Lyc., Med

WEAKNESS — Of back: Abiot : Bs. yl., dsc.; Alum, Ant.
t.; Arm: Berb. ve; But, acs Cale. oc; Cale. p.; Cinch ;
Coce.: Glycerm: Graph. Guace. Helen. Ign.; Ind,
Jacar ; Nal «., Mere; Nat. m; Nux v; Ox. ac.; Phos.
ac: Phos, Pic. ae. Pod; Sar-ae, sep., Stl; Staph.
Zine om

BODY — Bruised, sore feeling, all over: .\brot.; Ampel ; Apis,
-Irn , Bapt. Bellis, Caust.: Cres: Cam; Cinch; Eup. perf.:
Geis , Hep. Jberis; Lilt. Med; Morph.; Nux m.; Phyvt.;
Psor; Pyr., Radiem, Rhus t., Rata, Sarioc. ac., Solan.
lyc.; Staph., Tellur ; Thaya, Wyeth.

Burning, in various parts \con,; dgar, Apis; Ars;
Canth., Caps, Carby an., Phos. ac., Phos ; Sul.

Coldness - .\con.; Ech... Aut t; Ars; Atham., Dur. a;
Bor. ac; Cadm— s.; Campa. Camph. monobr ; Chloral;
Cupr.; Helod.; Jatropha, Lachnanth ; Luffa; Sec; Tab.;
Ver. a.; Zine m.

Conatriction, as if caged = - Cact.: Med.

Numbness — con. Ars + Cie: Con; Ow ae; Phos., Plumb

74 MG Ser,

Swelling — Apis, Doryph ; Frag. See Dropsy (Generalities)

dad ing — -lyar., Cod: Con , Gels; MWyos.; Iberis; Lonie.;

‘Ng.; Phos. Sarloc, ac
LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM 963

COCCYX — Burning on touch: Carbo an.

Itching — Bov.; Graph.

Neuralgia, worse rising from sitting posture Lach,

Numbness —- Plat

Pain (coccygodynia) Ant t. <Arn., Bell, Brv, Calc.
caust., Castorea; Caus'. Ciu., Cam, Cistus: Con; Ferr.
f., Fluor ac: Graph  Hyper., Kah bich , Kali ec. Kah
tod ; Areas Lach., Vobel mth: Mag ec; Alaa pis Mere,
Pans; Petrol: Phos.; Rhus t. Sip Tar. hi. Tetradym ,
Xanth., Zine m.

Bruised — Am m. Arn Cans. Rata, Sul.

Dragging, drawing — out fC aust., Graph. Kieos.

Tearing, lancinating - FPei/, Canth., (ics; Kah dich. Mag.
pos Mere

Ulcer - Paoma.

EXTREMITIES — Coldness: Noon: Naat ufaer ple Bell,
Cale, c., Cale hypoph: Cale op. Camph Caccinel
Crat , pute Terr om, Wedeoma., Helod , Hydro ae,
16 > Kal: Lol tem. Lome. Melt. Were, Maur ac

at. m, Nu~w m. Oleard, Op. Phvt, Quass; Sang ;
Sec.; Sulphon., Tull. ter a, Zime. m.

Itching ~ Arunde, Kale. Lye, Pail; Phos. Pron v,

al.

Lameness, stiffness lgar : Agarieine, Mow. Cale p
Carbo vo Coce. Bmal. Ging: Jpee., Kaho pj Lith oc,
Rhus t., Triost ; Xerophyl ; Zine m.

Numbness, tingling, fall asleep - Abunth > .feon, Ahin ;
Aran, Arg. n. Avena; Har. c.3 Cale ¢ . Cal op, Camph ,
Carbo «@., Caust., Cham : Ge; Cinch, Coce s Gels,
Helod : Kalt «.. Kal: Lome., Loc, Verph, Nato om,
Onosm , Op, Ox. ac, Phos: Picr ace Plat. Plamb, m,
Sec., Sil; Solan n., Sul, Thall, Ver. av Zime. m.

PAIN — Aching: isc; Apis: .fra., Ate; Agadir. Ary, Oa
c.; Carbo v., Caust, Cepa; Cim., Cinch: Con, Cur,
Cycl.; chin ; Eucal.: Gels, Hedeoma; Aal., Werc., Myr
Pyr., Quass.: Radium, Ran. sce.; Khod., Khus t. Sec
Sil; Staph: Stedar.; Strvch. p; Thyr.

Bone-pains - Aran; Aur.; Cale. pi Eup. pers., Gels., Kaly
btch.; Kali iod; Mag. mur.; Mang. ac; Merc., Mez.,
Phos. ac , Ran, Se. Rhus ven; Ruta; Sang., Sars.; Still,
Stront c.; Triost.

Cramp-like, constricting — Alumen; Antipyr : 4saf.; Cale.
e.; Canth.; Carbon. s; Coce; Col, Croc. Cupr. m.;
Gans: Mag. p; Menyanth.; Plat. ‘Sec; Sil; Strych. ;

er. a

Drawing ——- Camph.; Caust.; Graph.; Hep.; Kah eo; Lye;
Nat. m; Rhus t.

Erratic, fly about — Caul.; Iris; Kal bich. ; Kali s.; Kal.;
Lac c., Magnol.; Mong. ac.; Phyt ; Puls.; Sal. ac.; Stellar.

Growing pains — Calc p.; Guarac., Hippom ; ; Phos. ac. See
Bones (Generalities).

Hysterical contractures — Bell ; Coce.; Cupr.; lyos.; Ign ;
Lye.; Merce.; Nux v.; Stram ; Zinc. m.

Neuralgic, lancinating, tearing, shooting _ Absinth. ; 3 Acon;
Alum.; Bell, Branca; Carbon. Caul.; Cham., Daphne;
964 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

Elat ; Kucal.; Gels.; Guaiac ; Kali c; Kal.; Lye ; Mag. 9.;
Magnol ; Mimosa, Nit. ac.; Ox. ac.; Phos.; Phyt ; Rhod.;
Rhus t.; Sars; Sil; Strych. .

Rheumatico-gouty— Acon.;  Anag.; Ant. t.; Apis; Ars.;
Aspar.; Bell.; Branca; Bry., Cale c.3 Calc. gi Caul.;
Caust.; Cham; Colch.; Dule.; Eucal ; Guaiac.; Iod.; Kali
c; Kal, Lac cj; Lyc.; Merc., Prun. v; Radium; Rhod.;
Rhus t ; Sang.; Stellar.; Sticta.

Shock-like, paralytic —Cina; Colch.; Phyt, Thall., Vera-
trin; Ver v.; Xanth.

Sprained, dislocated feeling — .4rn , Bellis; Calc. c.; Carbo
v.; Cinch.; Rhus t.; Ruta See Joints.

Paralysis = Acon., Alum.; Bar. ac, Caust.; Cocc.; Con;
Cur; Dub; Dulce, Hedeoma; Kal.; Lol tem.; Nux v.;
Olkcand ; Op.; Phos., Rhus t.; Sec.; Sil. See Nervous
System

Sprains, chronic --Graph.; Petrol ; Stront. c. See Generali-
ties .

Stretching continually — Alum; Amyl; Angust; Ars;
Cinch.; Quass.; Sep.

Trembling, twitching, jerking — \con ; Agar.; Alum; Apis;
sirg. n., Ars.; Bell; Cale p; Carbo vi; Caust.; Csm.;
Cinch ; Cina, Coce.; Con., Cupr. ars.; Cupr. m.; Gels.;

HMelod ; Hyper., Hyos.; lan., Wali c.; Lol tem; Lonic.;
Tyc.; Mag. p.3 Alerc, Morph ; Mya, Op, Phos., Physost.;
Rhus t.; we Sep; Sil, Stram; Strvch.; Sulphon.;
Sul.; Tar. A: Thall.: Val, Viola od; Xerophyl.; Zane.
m., Zinc. s. See Weakness.

Weakneas, debility 4th.; Agar.; 4lum, Am caust ; Am.
mj; <Anac.; Apis; Arg. un; 4rs.; Asar.; Beins; Bism.;
Cale, «3 Caust, Cinch, Cace., Con.; Cur.; Cyprip.;
Dig; Kucal; Gels Gins.; Helon.; Hippom.; Kals Bick. :
Kal; Leeth; Lye; Mag p: Mere; Mur. ac.; Myr.;
Nat oc, Nat m.: Niceol s.; Nux v.; Onosm.; Ox. ac.;
Phos ac., Phes , Pier ac, Plet.; Prim. v.; Puls.; Sarcol.
a, Seuteh; Sep: Sil; Stan. ,  Strych. p.;  .ulphon.;
Thall., Vhuya; Ver. a; cine. m. See Neurasthenia (Nerv-
ous System)

UPPER EXTREMITIES — ARM: Sce Extremities in general.
Coldness -- Apis; Carbo v ; Raph.; Ver. a.

Eruptions = - Arundo: Caust + Phos. ac.; Sul

Gangrenous ulceration -— Ran flam.

Heaviness—— tion ; Alum, Can. ind., Cim.; Cur.; Ham.;
Nep.; Latrod.; Nat. m.; Ver. a.

Intolerant of band around —- Ov g. p.

Itching — Fagop.

Jerking, involuntary motion —-- 4gar.; Ant. ¢.; Cic.; Cina;
Cove.; Jpec.; Lact. v.; Lyc.; Op.; Tar. h.; Thusp.

» or involuntary motion, of one arm, and leg = Apoc.;
Bry.; Heileb.; Myg.; Zine. m

Lameness, stiffness — con; Am. c.; Bapt.; Can. ind.;

ay @Rst.; Paris; Rhus vexn., Thasp.; Ver. a
ules — Hippoz

4 bmess, fall asleep -— 4con.; Ambra; Aran.; Aster.; Bar.

vyrfee.s Caet., Cham.; Cim., Coec.; Dig.; Graph.; Iberis; Ign ;
964 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

Elat ; Kucal.; Gels.; Guaiac ; Kali c; Kal.; Lye ; Mag. 9.;
Magnol ; Mimosa, Nit. ac.; Ox. ac.; Phos.; Phyt ; Rhod.;
Rhus t.; Sars; Sil; Strych. .

Rheumatico-gouty— Acon.;  Anag.; Ant. t.; Apis; Ars.;
Aspar.; Bell.; Branca; Bry., Cale c.3 Calc. gi Caul.;
Caust.; Cham; Colch.; Dule.; Eucal ; Guaiac.; Iod.; Kali
c; Kal, Lac cj; Lyc.; Merc., Prun. v; Radium; Rhod.;
Rhus t ; Sang.; Stellar.; Sticta.

Shock-like, paralytic —Cina; Colch.; Phyt, Thall., Vera-
trin; Ver v.; Xanth.

Sprained, dislocated feeling — .4rn , Bellis; Calc. c.; Carbo
v.; Cinch.; Rhus t.; Ruta See Joints.

Paralysis = Acon., Alum.; Bar. ac, Caust.; Cocc.; Con;
Cur; Dub; Dulce, Hedeoma; Kal.; Lol tem.; Nux v.;
Olkcand ; Op.; Phos., Rhus t.; Sec.; Sil. See Nervous
System

Sprains, chronic --Graph.; Petrol ; Stront. c. See Generali-
ties .

Stretching continually — Alum; Amyl; Angust; Ars;
Cinch.; Quass.; Sep.

Trembling, twitching, jerking — \con ; Agar.; Alum; Apis;
sirg. n., Ars.; Bell; Cale p; Carbo vi; Caust.; Csm.;
Cinch ; Cina, Coce.; Con., Cupr. ars.; Cupr. m.; Gels.;

HMelod ; Hyper., Hyos.; lan., Wali c.; Lol tem; Lonic.;
Tyc.; Mag. p.3 Alerc, Morph ; Mya, Op, Phos., Physost.;
Rhus t.; we Sep; Sil, Stram; Strvch.; Sulphon.;
Sul.; Tar. A: Thall.: Val, Viola od; Xerophyl.; Zane.
m., Zinc. s. See Weakness.

Weakneas, debility 4th.; Agar.; 4lum, Am caust ; Am.
mj; <Anac.; Apis; Arg. un; 4rs.; Asar.; Beins; Bism.;
Cale, «3 Caust, Cinch, Cace., Con.; Cur.; Cyprip.;
Dig; Kucal; Gels Gins.; Helon.; Hippom.; Kals Bick. :
Kal; Leeth; Lye; Mag p: Mere; Mur. ac.; Myr.;
Nat oc, Nat m.: Niceol s.; Nux v.; Onosm.; Ox. ac.;
Phos ac., Phes , Pier ac, Plet.; Prim. v.; Puls.; Sarcol.
a, Seuteh; Sep: Sil; Stan. ,  Strych. p.;  .ulphon.;
Thall., Vhuya; Ver. a; cine. m. See Neurasthenia (Nerv-
ous System)

UPPER EXTREMITIES — ARM: Sce Extremities in general.
Coldness -- Apis; Carbo v ; Raph.; Ver. a.

Eruptions = - Arundo: Caust + Phos. ac.; Sul

Gangrenous ulceration -— Ran flam.

Heaviness—— tion ; Alum, Can. ind., Cim.; Cur.; Ham.;
Nep.; Latrod.; Nat. m.; Ver. a.

Intolerant of band around —- Ov g. p.

Itching — Fagop.

Jerking, involuntary motion —-- 4gar.; Ant. ¢.; Cic.; Cina;
Cove.; Jpec.; Lact. v.; Lyc.; Op.; Tar. h.; Thusp.

» or involuntary motion, of one arm, and leg = Apoc.;
Bry.; Heileb.; Myg.; Zine. m

Lameness, stiffness — con; Am. c.; Bapt.; Can. ind.;

ay @Rst.; Paris; Rhus vexn., Thasp.; Ver. a
ules — Hippoz

4 bmess, fall asleep -— 4con.; Ambra; Aran.; Aster.; Bar.

vyrfee.s Caet., Cham.; Cim., Coec.; Dig.; Graph.; Iberis; Ign ;
LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM 965

Kali c.; Latrod ; Lil. t.; Lye , Mag. mi Magnol.; Nux o ;
Paris; Phos.; ; Rhus t.; Sep; Sil.; Xanth

Numbness, left arm — ‘Acon.; Dig. Kal ; Puls > Rhus ¢.

Numbness, right arm - - Phyt

PAINS — -£sc ; Alum.; Anag., Cale c.; Caust.; Cepa; Cinnab ;

Eup. perf., Kerr pier.; Gels ; Guaco; Guoiac.: Indium;
Mag. m.; Nat m.; Phos.; Phyt.; Rhus t., Sang.; Solan.
lyc ; Stellar , Sticta; Sul, Wyeth. ; Zinc. m.

Pain in left arm - Acou.; 3 ‘Agar. : Aster ; 3 Cact.; Cim.; Colch.;
Crot.; Iberis; Kal.; Latrod., Magnol.; Mag. 8.3 Rhus t.;
Spig, Tah; Kanth’

Pain in right arm -— Fern. mur; Ferr, picr.; Tip. m.; Rhus
v; Sung., Solan. lye; Viola od: Wye

Aching -- Bapt.; Berb. v; Canst ; Gels ; ; Tabs >; Lath o.; Nat.
ars., Ol. j. as.; Sarrac

Bruised, cramp-like —- Acon; Arg. n.; Cocc., Cupr. m.;
Oleand.; Phos. ac ; Sec.; Sul. ac.; Ver v.3 Zine. s.

Drawing —— Calc ci; Caust, Lyc.; Mag. “ne; Mur. ac; 3 Oleand.;
Sep.; Sil; Zine. m.

Neuralgic (brachyalgia) —- con. vad.; Alumn.; Brv.; Hyper.;
Kah c; Kal, Lye; Metco; Nex v; Pip. mj; Puls.; hus
t; Scutel.; Sul | Teucr.; Ve 2; Viscum.

Paralysis — Coce.: Ferr 5 Gels.3 “Nux v.; Rhus t.

Sensibility, diminished " Carbon S.5 Phos

Tearing, stitching — Calc. c; Ferr , Hep; Phos; Sep.; Sil

Trembling -— Cod ; Gels 4 Kah br.; Phos., Sil See Weakness.

Weakness - - Alumen; Anac; Cur, Dig: Tod.; Kali ce; Lach;
Lyc.; Mag. p.; Nat. m, Sarcol. ac., Sep.; Sib, Stann.; Sul.

FOREARM ~—-Sce Extremities

Coldness -- Arn.; Brom ; Med

Pain -— Anae.; ; Cinnab.; Eup perf. Ferr. muri Ferr. pier.;
Gels.; Guaco; Hyper., Kali c.; Kal; Phyt.; Rhus t.; Sep.;
Stann

Paralysis — .\rg. n.; Nua v.; Plumb.; Sil. See Nervous
System

Soreness of flexor carpi ulnaris — Prachyl.

Unsteadiness of muscles of forearm, hands —- Caust.

HAND — Blueness, distended veins: Am. cy Amyl; Ant. ¢.;
Carbo an.; Ing.; Elaps; Taur.; Nit. ac.; Oleand.; Samb.;
Stront. ¢, Ver. a See Cyanosis (Circulatory System).

Burning, heat-~— dcon., Agar ; Carbo v.; Coce.; Lach.; Lye;
Med.; Ol. j. as- Phos., Sang; ous Sed,

Chapping -- Alum; Cale. c., Castor. ; Cistus; Graph.; Lye;
Mag. c.; Nat. ars.; Nat. c.; Petrol; Sars.; ; Sulphucous ac.

Coldness ~ Abies c.; Acon.; Ant te; A is; cites Git: Cale.

Camph.; Carbon, ox.; Cic.; Cinc Con, ; Cupr.; Dig.;

Tod ; Menyanth.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac; “écilla; Tab. ; Thuya:
Trifol.; Ver. a.

Coldness ‘of one, warmth of the other - Cinch.; Dig.; Ipec ;

Puls.

Cramps — Bell.; Cale. ¢: Sec. Sal.

Cramps (writer’ a) -- Ambra; Arg. m.; Arg. n.; Brachygl.;
Caust.; Crm.; Supe ¢ Cyel.: Gels.. Graph; Hep.; Slag 6,
Ruta; ‘Stann. : ac: Sul. Sce Nervous System.

Dryness Lye; Zine. m
966 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

Enlarged feeling -~ Jran.; Caust.; Core. Gins ; Kalin

Eruption Ror., Cistus; Pedic; Pia d See Skin

Fidgety —- Kah br., Myg.; Tar. h.; Zinc, m.

Hypothenar eminences bright red — .\con.

Itching — Agar.; Tellur.

Nodosities, gouty, on dorsum — 4m = = phos., Eucal; Med
See Fingus

Numbness, go asleep ---.fcon.; Arg. u., Ars ; Bor.; Can. ind.;
Caust.; Coce ; Cod; Colch. ; Graph ; Hyper.; Tberis; La.
burn; Lach; Lilt. Lye 3 Mag »; Nat. c.; Nux v.;
Phos , Physost ; Pyr.; Raph; Sec., Tola ar.

Pains — Bruised: Ruta, Ver, ‘a.

Lancinating - (ed; Lappa; Selen.; Sul.

Rheumatic —- Ambra: Berb. v.3 Canl, Canust., Chel ; Guaiac 5
Led: Puls, Rhus t., Ruta, Sang ; Solan. lve

Paralysis —- Fer: , laburn.; Mere. , Plumb. ac.; Ruta, Sil

PALMS — Blisters: Bufo

Burning— -lzadir., Bolet.; Fear ms: Ferr. p.; Gadus; Lach.:
Tachnanth.; Jamul.; Nat. m; Ol. 7 as., Potiol, Phos,
Prim v.; Puls nut; Sang, Sep: Sul.

Chapping, fissuring —'Cale. fl, Ran b.

Cramps -— Cupr. om; Scrophul ; Zing.

Desquamation - lilaps.

Eruption, dry, bran-like, itching Anag.. clrs , N-ray ‘

Itching —- Ant. s a, Fagop., Grunat., Ran. b.; Tub.

Pains Azadiy.; ‘Trifol.

Stiffness of hands while writing - Kah m.

Sweating --- Cale c., Coce ; Con.; Dule ; Fagop ; Fluor. ac.
Nat m.; Pier. ac, Sep i Sth Strvch, po, Sul Wyeth.
Swelling —- Aésc ; .\gar.: “igs: \rg on., Ars; Arundo: Bry.
Cact., Cale c: Crot.; El aps; Fert. p.; Nat. chlor.; RAuw

die See Dropsy (Generalities).

Twitching, trembling, weakness —-- Act sp.; Anac.: Ant. c.
Ant. top .trg on, Arn; Avena; Cale c., Cic, Cina; Cocc.
Con, Cur., Gels., Hippom ; "Lach.; ; Lact. v;: Lol. tem.
Mag p, Merce: Phos., Sars.; Sarcol. ac., Sil; Stann.
Stram., Sul., Tab.y Zine. om.

Warts - fnac., Ant eo; Cale, c.; Dule.; Ferr, mag; Ferr.
fier., Nat. co: Nat m; Ruta.

Yellow cotor -— Chel; Sep See Skin.

FINGERS — Blueness, coldness: Chel.; Crat.; Cupr om.; Ver
a. See Hands.

Blue, nunb, shrivelled, spread apart, or bent backward —
See.

Burning —~ .{sudtr.; Gins.; Oleand ; Sars; Sud

pea tips -—— Alum; Grapi., Nat m; Petrol., Ran. 0;
aatic.; Sars.

Cc like, contracted, clenching ~- 4th., Ambra. <Anag:

Bism ; Rrachygl , Can. 8.3 Caust.; Cres Cima;

Colchicine: Cupr. ac, Cupr. m.; Cyel.; Diose.;
b., Kali bich.; Laur.; Lye.; Paris. Ruta: Yee.; Solan.
Stann ; Sul. ac.
yoked ~ Kali ce; Lye.
H hed, mashed tips -— ilyper
. tions - - Alnus, Anac; Bov.; Graph.; Limul: Lob. er;
at. ¢.; Nu. ac; Petrol, Prim. far.; Rhus t ; Sars.; Selen.;
Neronal See Skin.

LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM 967

Exostoses - Calc. fl.; Hekla.

Hypertrophy -— Aur. ‘mur,

Impression deep, from scissors — Bov.

Itching between —- Phos. ac. See Skin.

Jerking, when holding pen—-Caus!.; Crna; Cycl.; Kali .;
Stann., Sul. ac.

Joints, inflamed, painful — Ben: ac.. Berb. v.; Bry.; Fluor.
ace} 3; Lye: Med : Nat. p.; Pip m., Prim, sylv.; Puls.; RAws

Staph. ; Stellar. See Rheumatism.

Joints, nodosities on- Am plos., Bens. ac.; Benzoin; Cale.
e.; Cale fl; Canl, Colch.; Graph.; Led.; Lyc.; Med.;
Staph Stellar. See Joints.

Joints. pain in —Bry., Graph.; Led.; Lye.; Sil, Sul.

Joints stiff -Carbo v; Caul., Lye; Prim. sylv.s, Puls. See
oints.

Numbness, tingling of fingers — Acon.; disc.; Ars.; Asters H
Bar. c:; c.; Cocame; Con.; Digs Live; “Mag. p.
Mag ..; Nat m., Nit ac; Or ac, fans, Phos; Po pyl.,
Sareul. ac.; Sec., Stl., Thall , Thuya; Upas; Verhasc.; Zinc.

m.
Pains, at root of nails — Berb v.; Rism ; Cepa; Myrist seb.
Pains in general — Abrot.; Azadir.; Lal. t.; See.

Pains in tips -— .\m. m.; Bor.; Chel; Hyper.; Kali c.; Sec.;
Sih; ‘Leuer.

Pains, rheumatic — Aci. sp., Ant. c.; Berb. v.; Canl.; Colch.;
Fagop Granat.; Giaph., Guaco; Hyper.; Lappa; Led.;
Lith. e : Lye ; Med.: Paoma; Puls.; Ran. sc.; Rhus t. See
Rheumatism

Pains, tearing -.fct sp., Am. m.; Caul.; Caust.; Ced.; Led.;
Lye; Puls ; Rhus t.

Pains, throbbing — Amy!; Bor

Panaritium -— Alum.; Am. ¢; Diose ; Myrist. seb.; Sil

Sensibility, diminished -— Carbon. s , Pop. c.; Sec.

Sensitive to cold --- Ctsius, Hep.

Skin, dry, shrivell2d --- 45th. See Skin.

Skin peels off —- Elaps. See Skin.

Soreness between -- Nat. ars. Sce Skin.

Stiffness rigidity — Am. c.; Carbon. s.; Caul.; Cocc.; Lye.;
Oleand., Puls.: Sil. See Joints.

Swelling — - dm. c; Bry.; Carbon, »; Cinnam.; Hep.; Kal
m.; Lith. « ; Mang; Oleand.; Pads. 5 Thuya.

Thick, horny tips — int c., Pop. c.

Trembling -- I3ry.; Tod; Kal br.; Lolium; Merc.; Oleand.;
Rhus t.

Uleers -- Alum; Arundo; Ars: Bor.; Sep.

Weariness -— Bov.; Cale. c.; Cur.; Gels.; Hippom.; Phos.;
Sil. See Hand.

LOWER EXTREMITIES — BUTTOCKS (glutei): Cold feeling:
Daphne
Cold feeling, fall asleep — Calc p.

Cramp —- Graph.

Emaciation — 1.thyr.

Pain to hips, small of back — Staph.

Pricking -— (suaiac.

Swelling --!tos, ac.
968 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

LOINS — LUMBAGO: 4Acon.; Act. sp.; Hsc.5 Agar. Aloe,
Ant. t.; Arn.; Bell; Berb. v.; Bry.; Cale. fi.; Cale. p.
Carb. ac.; Carbon. 8.5 Coul.; Cham.; Chel 5 Cim.; Cina
Colch.; Col; Diose.; Dulce; Eup. perf.; Ferr. m: Gins.
Gnaph.; Guaiac.; Hydr.; Hymosa; Ipomoea; Kali bich.
Kah c., Kali 10d; Kali ox.; Lathyr.; Led.; Lith. benz.
Lyc.; Macrot ; Mere. 8.5 ; Nat. m.; Nuwr v.; jPampin.; 5 Pier.
ac.; Phyt: Puls.; Radium; Rham. c; Rhod.; Rhus t.,
Ruta; Sabal; Senec.; Sep.; Spiranth.; Sul.; Tereb.; Vib.

op.

Alternates, with heachache, piles — Aloe.

With aggravation in open air - - Agar.

With aggravation on beginning to move — Anac.; Con.;
Glycerin; Rhus t.

With aggravation, on beginning to move, relieved by con-
tinued motion — Calc. fl.; Rhus t.

With aggravation on exertion during day; while sitting —

gar.

With aggravation on lying down — Bell.; Murex.

With chronic tendency — J/¥sc.; Berb. v.; Cale. f.; Rhus t.;
Sil.

With masturbatic origin; sexual weakness — Nux v.

With numbness, in lower part of back, weight in pelvis —-
maph,

With relief from lying down — Fuonym; Sep,

With relief, from slow walking — Ferr m.

With retching, co'd, clammy sweat, from least motion —
Lathyr.

With sciaticn — Rhus t.

THIGS-LEGS — Blue, painful, swollen, if hanging down:
Wathyr

Burning — 4rs.; Arundo; Bar. c; Kali c.; Lye ; Mez.; Still.

Coldness — Acon.: Alum:; ; Astrag ; 3 Berb. v.; Bism.; Calc. ¢.;
Cale. p.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Colch.; Crot.; Lact. ac;
Tact. v.; Laur, ; Lye. Mere.;| Mez.; Nat. m ; Nit ac;
Ox ac; Sep; Si; Tab., Ver a.; Zinc. m.

Contractions of hamstrings, tendons — 4m. m.; Caust.;
Cimex; Col.; Graph ; Guaiac; Mez.; Nat. m; Ruta; Sul.

Curved limbs, cannot be straightened, and vice versa — Cic.

Emaciation— Abrot.; Acet. ac; Kali iod.; Lathyr; Pin.
sylv.

Enlargement of femur, in rechitic infants -— Calc. fi.

Eruptions—Calc c: Chrysar; Gins.; Graph; Mag. c.;
Petrol; Sui. See Skin.

Erysipelas — Sul. Sec Skin.

Excoriation, itching over tibia — Bism.

Heaviness —- Alum.: Bry.; Calc. ¢; Can. ind.; Cim.; Con.;
Gins.; Guaco; Helleb.;| Med.; Nux v.; Pall; Ptcr. mm ;
Sep.; Sulphon.: Sul.; Verbasc.; ; Vib. op.

Itching — Bellis. Bov , Fugop.: Nit, ac: Rumer: Stellar.

M@ion involuntary —Bry.; Helleb.; Lyc.; ; Myg.; Tar. b.

e Trembling.
formication, “going asleep"— .4gar.; Alum.;
alc. ¢; Calc. p.; Caust.; Carbon. s.; Coce.; Col.;
nt Gaoph: Graph.; Kali c.; Kali iod; Lact. v.; Mez.;
Mi Onosm ; Phos.; Rhus 't.; Sarcol. ac.; See.; Sep.;
h.; Tela ar.; Triost.; Zinc. m.

LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM 969

PAINS — Im general: Agar ; Can. ind.: Caps, Carbon s,; Carbo
an; Chel. ; tad.; | Diose.; Euphorb.; Ferr. m.; Gels.;
Gnaph ; Welod ; Ilic ; Indigo; Iod.; Irid.; Kah ¢.; Kal;
liach.; Mag. m.; Mang. ac; Mang. ox.; Menisp.; Murex;
Nat. s3 Nit ac.; Phos. ac.; I’hos., Pier ac.; Plumb. m ;
Puls.; Rhus t , Sab.; Sil.;Tongo; Trifol.; Vib. op.; Vipera

Aching, bruised-- Arg. n; Arn, Bapt., Cale. c; Cim,
Cocce.; Colch , Diose.; Eup. perf., Gels.; Guaiac.; Laur.;
1nil. t.; Med ; Phos, ac ; Pyr.; Sab.; Sarcol. ac.; Sep.; Solan.
lyc.; Staph.; Ulnus; Faniol

Cramps, contractions— Esc gl.; Ambra; Am. br.; 4m
m; Anac; dAon.; Bapt; Bar. c.; Cale. c., Camph., Carb.
ac.; Carbo an; Carbo v3; Caust., Cholas ter.; Cimez;
Cim, Cinch; Coce, Colch.: Col; Con.; Cupr. ars ;
Eupion, Ferr. m.; Gels.; Hyper.; Wyos.; Irid.; Tatropha;
Lol tem; Lyc, Mag. p.; Med.; Nit. ac; Nugx v.; Ox.
ac., Pin. sylv., Plumb, m.; Puls.; Réus te; Sareol, ac.;
Sec; Sep; Si; Solan. t.; Sui; Ustl.; Ver. a; Vipera;
Zine s

Cramps (tailor’s) — Anac; Anag; Mag p.

Pains in tibia — Ars; Bad.; Carbo an; Dulce; Ferr. m;
Kah bich , Yach.; Mang ox.; Mes.; I'hos.; Sep

Rending, tearing, lancinating --.4m. m.; Ais; Bapt.; Bar.
ac; Bell.; Bellis; Cob.; Col; Mfose.; Hyper.; Kali bich.;
Kali c; Kal: Lye; Nit. ac.; Plumb. m.; Puls.; Rhus t.;
Sep.; Sul; Teucr.; Viscum.

Rheumatic — Berb. v.; Bry., Chel.; Colch.; Daphne; Dulc.;
Led.; Phyt, Merc.; Riaws t., Stellar; Val. Gee Rheu-
matism.

Paralysis— Agar., Alum., Bry; Can and.; Chel.;  Corc.;
Croat.: Dule ; Gels ; Guaco, Kali 10d.; Kali_tart.; Lathyr.;
Nux vi Oleand ; Plamb. m.; Rhus _t.; Sec.; Sulphon.;
Tah; Thall.; Ver a, Zinc. m. See Nervous System.

Restless, fidgety —- Ars.; Carbo v.; Caust.; Cim; Cinch.;
Con; Crot; Lilt; Lyes Med.; Menyanth.; Merc c.;
Myg.; Nit. ac; Rhus t.; Ruta; Scutel.; Sep.; Sulpnon.;
Tar. h; Tarax., Thasp.; Zinc. m.; Zine. v.

Rigidity, stiffness, lameness— Alum.;  Angust.; Arg. 1.7
Bapt ; Bar, m.; Cale. ¢.; Cic.; Coich ; Con., Diusce.; Eup.
perf., Guaiac.; Lathyr.. Physost., Plat.; Rhus t.; Sarcol.
ac.; Sep.; Strych.; Nerophyl.

Sensibility, diminished — Ox. ac.; Phos. See Nervous Sys-

tem.

Sensibility, increased—— Ivach.; Lathyr. See Nervous System.

Spots on, red — Calc. c.; Sul.

Stretching — Am c.; Amyl; Ifelleb.; Helod. See Fever.

Sweat, cold, clammy, at P. M. — Calc. c; Merc.

Sweat extending below knees in A. M. — Sul.

Sweat on thighs, exhausting at P. M. — Carbo an.

Swelling — Acet. ac.; Api; Ars.; Aur.; Cact.; Chel.; Dig.;
Eup. perf.; Ferr. m.; Fluor. ac.; Graph; Kali c.; Lathyr.;
Lye.: Merc ;. Phos.; Rhus t.; Samb.; Sep.; Stront. c.;
Stropn.; Sul.; Thyr; Viscum. See Dropsy (Generalities).

Trembling -— Esc. gl; Arg. m.; Cob ; Coce.; Cod.; Colch.;
Con; Cur.; Doryph.; Gels.; Lol. tem.; Mimosa; Nit. ac.;
Phos.; Tab.; Zine. m.

Trickling, as from drops of water — Acon,
970 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

Uleers — stirs, Cale ¢3 Carbo v5 Cistus; Echin.; Lyc.;
Phos. ac; Rhus t., Sacchar. of.; Sil.; Trifol. See Gen-
cralities.

Weakness, easily fatigued — .Esc., Alumen; Alum.; Am. c.;
Arg. m.; -fry om., Bar. m.; Berb. v.; Cale. p.; Can. ind.;
Cim.; Cob.; Cocc., Coleh.; > Con.; Cupr. m; ‘Cur.; Dig.
Ferr. m.; Forma, Gels. ; Ham.; Kali e.; Kal; Lach ;
Nat. ms Nua v., Ob eand. ; Onosm.; Ponta; Phell.; Phos
ac; Phos. Pur. ac. Rhus t.5 Ruta; Sarrac ; Sarcol. a.
Sak; Sta, Sub; Vi op.

FEET — Affections of ball, and dorsum of toes: Can. +

Bunions - -.\gar.; Rens. ace; Hyper.; Nali 10d, Rhod., Sul.;
Ver. ve See Skin.

Burning - .\gai.;) .\inoic.3 el pis, Azadir.; Branca; Bor.;
Graph.; Vlelod ; Kali c3 Lach; Med, Nat. m3; Phos
ac; Phos. , Puls: 2 Sees Sep.; Sil; Sul.

Chilblains - fbrot., Agat, Petrol., Sul; Tamus, Zine. mm
See Skin

Coldness-- wfeon., Alum.; drs, Cale. ¢.; Camph ; Carbo an ;
Carbo v., Caust., Chel; Cistus; Con.; Dig.; Dulk., Elaps;
Uelod.; Kah ic; Lac h. » Lye Menyanth; Mur. ac.,
Oleand ; Petrol; Pier, ac.; Plat.; Puls.; Samb., Sella.
Sec., Sep., Sil, Sul. ac.; Sul; Trifol; Ver. a.

Coldness, clammy - - Bar. c ; Cale c., Laut.; Sep., Strych o

Coldness during day, burning soles at night- Sul

Coldness of one, warmth of other —~ Cinch.: Digi; Ipec., Zi:

Enlarged feeling — .\pis.

Eruptions = - Bism ; Elaps, Graph; 3 Petrol See Skin.

Fidgety -- (ina, Kali pos Med, Suly Zins owe, Zine uv,

Spasmodic motion of left foot — Cina.

Tender teet with shop girls -- Scilla

HEELS — Blisters: Caust

Burning -- Cycl : Graph. See Feet.

Numbness adlua, gn.

Qs Calcis, pain — .\1an

Purring sensation, extending to right toes -—~ .\-tray.

PAINS —In general -- 4gar;_ sim. c.. im om: Brom: Cale
caust.; Caul., Caust.¢ Coleb.; Cyel.; Ferrer. m.; Graph.,
Led, Mang ac, Nat ars.; Nit ac.; Phos. ac.; Phyt
Ran. b; Rhus t., Sab; Sep: Nd, Vetradyn.; Upas; Val.,

Zine. m.
Aching, bruised = - Arn; Laur: Led: Phvt., Rhus ¢.
Soreness - -.\nc c.; Cepa, Cycl, Jal; Kah bich.; Med.; Phos.
ac.

Soreness, as if stepping on pebbles — Hfep.; Lyc.

Tendo-Achilles, pain -- Aristol.; Benz. ac.: Cale caust
Caust., Cine, Ign: Med; Afnr. ac.; Nat. ars.; Ruta;
Tetradyn.; Upas; Mal

ve —— Am om, Berbo 6. Phos ue. Puls. Raab.
 Uleare heels — Arundo; Cena
I feet -— 4yer., Am. m.; Ant. s. a; Bov.; Caust.;

. Nat. si: Sul; Tellur.
i worse du scratching, warmth of bed -- Led.; Puls .
st.
LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM 97!

Joints, gouty, enlarged — Fucal.; Puls. nut.; Tar. ¢.3 Zinc.
m. See Joints.

Numbness, formication, go asleep - .Eth.; Am m.;) Ars:
Cale. c.3 Carbo wv, Cob.; Coce, Cod.; Coleh.: Con ,
Fagop.; Gels.; Haper.; Lact. vv; Mag. 6: Mez.: Nux v.,
Onosm.; Physost , Phos.; Pyr; Sec.; Sil; Ulnus; Upas,
Viola od.; Zinc m.

PAINS — Aching, bruised: .1m. om, Arn; Azadir.; Brom.;
Dios.; Euonym.; Prun. sp.; Ver. a.

Cramps — Pism; Cholas ter; Cinch.: Colch.; Cuprom.,
Frax. ao.; Jatropha, Lye.; Nat. c., Sec., Sep.; Verbasc.;
Zme. na

Lancinating -- \brot.; .fct. sp, Apis; Ced., Led.; Lye;
Nat. c.; Sep.

Rheumatic ---fct. sp. Apis; Berb. v., Caul, Caust., Colch ;
Graph ; Led., Lith. c., Mang. ac; My1., Phyt.; Puls ,
Ran. b; Rhus t., Ruta.

Sensibility, diminished — Carbon 5

SOLES — Blistered: Bufo; Cepa.

Burning — .\nac ; Apoc andr. § 3; Arundo, Cale. c+ Cale s.,
Canth ; Cham.; Cupr.; Ferr. m.; Graph.; Ign.; Kreos ;
Lach.; Lacnanth.: Tamul.; Lye, Mang; Med, Niccol
s.; Petrol; Phos ac., Puls.; Sang ; Sanic.; Sul.

Callosities - Anac. oc., nt. c, Ran. b, Sal See Skin.

Itching .fgar. Ananth.; Anthem.; Cale. s.; Hydracot.; In-
dium: Nat. s ; Sil

Numbness — Corc., [imul.; Raph ; Sep.

PAINS — In general: .{poc. andr., Bor; Can. _ind.; Fer: ;
Guace, Led.; Timul, Mur, ac.; Nat. ¢.; Petrol.; Phos.

Puis., Verase.

Aching -- Limul.; Puls

Cramps --Agar.; Am. c.3 Apoc. andr.; Carbo v.;. Colch;
Cupr., Med.; Nux «.; Stront.; Sul ; Verbase.; Zinc

Cramps, worse at P. M. — Cupr.; Enq. f.; Zing

Pains, when walking —— -tloc; Caust.; Graph.; Lye.; Mur.
ac.; fetrol., Phos. ac

Ulcerative, unable to walk — Canth.; Ign, Phos

Rawness, soreness, tenderness — -7isc.; Alum.; dat. ¢.; Arn;
Bar. c.; Cale. c., Graph; Kali c.; Led.; Lye; Med.,
Nit ac.; Petrol., Phos. ac.; Ruta; Same.; Sil.

Swelling — .igar.; Alum.; Arundo, Cale. c; Led.; Lyc.;
Petiol. See Feet.

Uleer ~~ -Ars.

Weakness — Ilippom. Sce Feet.

SWEATING OF FEET — Alum.; Am. c.; dm. m.; Ananth.;
Apoc. andr.; Arundo; Bar. ac.; Ber. c.; Calc. es Carbo
v.; Cob; Graph; Jod.; Lact. ac.; Lye.; Mag. Nu
a,., OL “an.; Petrol: Phos. ac.; Psor.; Rhus t; Sai. ac.,
Sanu ; Sep.; Sil; Sul.; Tellur.: Thuya; Zine. m.

Sweating, fetid— Am. m.; Rar. ¢.; But. ac.; Graph.; Kali
c.; Nit. ac.; Petrol; Psor.; Sanic ; Sil.

Sweating, suppressed -Cupr.; Sep.; Sil; Subg Zinc. m.

Sweating, with sorences of toes— lod; Lyc; Nit. ac;
Petrol; Sanic., Sil.
972 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

Swelling —- Acet. ac., disc.; Am. c.; Apis, Ars., Arundo.
Bry.; Cact.; Caust.; Cinch.; Dig, Ferr.; Graph , Ham.,
Helod ; Led.; yc; Mere. c; Merc.; Nat. m.; Nat. 5.3
Phos. ac.; Plumb. m.; Prun, sp.; Puls.; Sacchar. of.;
Samb; Sep.; Sil; Stroph.; Ver. a. See Dropsy (Gen-
eralities).

Tenderness, soreness — 4nt. c, Arn.; Bar. c; Cepa; Led ;
Petrol.; Phos ac , Sil; Zinc. See Pain. .

Trembling —Gels.; Phos , Sars.; Sep; Stram.

Uleer —- Bar. c.

Varices -— Jerr. acet.; Ham. See Generalities

Weakness = Acon.; ‘Esc; Ant. c.; Ars.; Bow; Can »s.;
Gels , Ilippom.; Ign ; Lyc.; Mag. c, Ran. rep.

TOES — Bunion on big toe -Agar.; Bens ac, Bor.; Tod.;
Kah 10d ; Rhod., Sang ; Sars.; Sil, Ver. v. See Skin.

Burning -- Alum.

Callosities- - \cct ac; Ant. c, Cale. c; Cur; Ferr. picr.;
Graph ; Lye: Nat. ac., Ran. 6, Ran. sce.; Semperv. t.;
Sep: Sil, Sul ac. See Skin,

Chilblains —- Nit, ac ; Sal. ac. See Skin.

Coldness -—- Sul.

Cracks of skin -—Kug ); Graph; Petrol; Sabad.; Sai,

Crooked —- Giaph.

Festering - Giaph.

Itching § -slyar., Kali c.; Maland.

Joints inflamed — Am. c.; Bens ac., Bor.; Bothrops: Cato
v.; Colch , Daphne, Led ; Rhod , Teucr. See Joints.

Nails, deformed, thick Ant. ce, Graph

Nails, inflamed -- Sahad

Nails, ingrowing - Caust » Grapi., Hep; Mag. pi Mag.
fel aust.; Nit ac.; Sil., Staph ; ; Teucr.

Nails, pain around “Ant oc: Fluor. ac ; Hep.; Teuer.

Numbness — Con; Nat. m; Phos; Sui ; Sul; Thall.

PAINS — Big toe: Am c.: .\Ars; Bar. c.: Cale. c; Elat.; Eup.
perf.; Kali c; Led; Plumb oj; Pam, c.; Sep.; Sil

Cramps —-(upr ac.; ‘Cupr, m; Dig.; Diose.; yos.; Lyc ;
Rhus t.; Sec; Sep.; Sul.

Rheumatic —— .4ct sp., Apoc andr; Benz, ac.; Bor.; Both-
rops, Canul, Caust; Cola; Daph.e; Gnaph., Hyper;
Wah co; Led.; Lith c.: Nit. ac; Peonia; Phos. ac.; Puls.
Sab; Si. See Gout.

Rheumatic, in big toe --Am benz; Arn.; Benz ac., Bor.;
Bothieps, Coeleh , Conv., Gnaph, Kah c.. Led... Rhod :

ol

Rheumatic, in tips of toes -- .\im m., Hyper., Wali c.; Si;
Syph.

Tearing fit. sp; Aimom.; Benz ac; Brom.; Caul.; Colch.;

Pall.; Sil.; Syph
Soreness ~- Rar. ¢, Brom, Nat, ars.; Phos. ac See Peet
Sti Cant; Graph; Led; Gee, See Jomts
Uleér of ‘hig toe — Sil
Ulcer, pemphigus — drs Graph.; Petrol ; Sep.
Wheals, eroding —- Sul.

GAIT —Aigi 2 Coff.
At ma AT. on, “Rell ; Helod.; Ign.; Nux v.; Sec; Swb-
See Tocomotot Ataxia (Nervous System),
LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM 973

Sluggish, slow — Gels.; Phos. ac.; Phos,

Spastic — J,athyr.

Staggering, unsteady, difficult walking — Acon.; Agar.;

grost , -Angust.; rg. , Asar., Aster.; Astrag.; Bell.;
Carbon. s., Caust, Coce.; Con.; Dub; Gels., Welod.:
Ign.; Lact. ac.; Lathyr.; lak t; Lol; Mang. ac.; Merc.; 3
Morph.; Mur. ac., Afyg.; Nat. © 5 ux m.; Nux wv,
Onosm ; Oayir , Pxomia, Phos. ac.; Phos, Rhus t; Sec.. ,
Sep.; Stram; Sulphon; Tab.; Tron; Zac. m

Staggering, unsteady, when unobserved ~ Argon

Staggering, unsteady, when walking in dark, or with eyes
closed — Alum., .irg. n; Carbon. s., Dub; Gels., Iodof ,
Stram,

Staggering, unsteady, with muscular ince-ordination -—
Alum.; Arag.; Arg ni: Asters Astrag, Bar m; Bell;
Coce , Gels., Kali rs >; Med.; Onosm, Phos ac.; Physost.;
Picr. ac; Plumb; Sec.; Sil, Thon: Zune om

Walking backward — Ox)t:

Walking backward, on metacarpo-phalangeal joint -- Mang.

Walking, child slow to learn--- Bar. ¢, Cale c.; Cale. p;
Caust.; Nat. m.; Sil

When walking, drags feet -—\Jyu , Nux v, Tab.

When walking, foot shoots out, or turna --- Acon

When walking, heels do not touch ground — J-athyr.

When walking, joints fee) painfully tense, as from ham-
strings shortened — .\m. m.; Caust.; Cimex.

When walking, legs feel as if ‘made of wood, or glass --
Shuya.

When walking, legs involuntarily thrown forward - - Merc

When walking, lifts feet higher than usual, and brings them
down hard --- Helod.

When walking, limps involuntarily -- Bell

When walking, mus? stop — Arn.; Lathyr.; Sul.

When walking on uneven ground, very difficult — I). ¢

when walking or standing, suddenly falling to ground —
Mag. c.

When waiking, seems to be walking on air -- Dub.; Lac c.

When walking, stumbles easily, makes missteps -- Agar.;
Phos.

When walking, trembles all over — J.act ac

JOINTS — Burning: - Apis; Ars.; Caust.; Colch.; Mang. ac.;
Merc ; Rhus t.; Sul.

Bursa — Benz. ac; Ruta, Sil.

Contraction, painful, of tendons, hamstrings — Abrot.; Am.
m.; Caust., Cimex; Col.; Formica; Gucsoc.; Kali iod.;
Nat. m.; > Tellur.

Cracking, on motion — Acon.; Angst; Benz. ac.; Cale. fi.;
Camph.; Caust.; Cocc.; Gins.; Graph.; ; Kali bich.; "Kali
m.; Led; Nat. m; Nat. .; Nit. ac; Petrol; Thuya;
Zine. m.

Dropsy (hydarthrosis) — Apis; Bov.; Canth.; Chin. 8;
Cinch. ;
974 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

Hysterical joints -Arg n, Cham.; Cotyled.; Myper.; Ign.;

Abita

Inflammation (ARTHRITIS) — Acute: «Icon , Arbut.; Benz.
ae; Berb v; Bry.; Caust.; Cim.; Cinch ; Colch ; Gnaph ;
Guatac, ; Tod.; Kah bich.; Kali wd: Led, [al t., Lith.
ce: Mang ac ; Merc; Nat. sil; Nit ac; Phyt; Puls
Radium, Rhus t, Sab.; Sal. ac., Solid; Stellar.; Sul.
tereb , Viola tr. See Rheumatism,

Inflammation, chronic (arthritis deformans) — .\m phos.;
Ant oe. Arbut, Arn; -Ars.; Benz. ac.; Cale. c.; Cale.
ten, Caul.; Caust.; Cim.; Cinch, Colch; Colchicine,
Ferr ied; Ferr, pier; Guaiac., lod, Kal br.; Kali tod.,
Iact ace; Led; Tye.: Mere. c.; Nat. br: Nat. pz
siberas , Puls., Sab, Sal. ac; Sep., Sul.; Sul tered.,
Thyr,

Inflammation-GOUT \brot ; Acon.; Am. bens , Apis; Arn;
Ars; Aur. mur; Aur m,n; Bell; Benz. ac: Berb. ve5
Bry , Cayup., Cale. c¢3 Carls.; Cham; Chinoss Cimt)eh,
Colkh ; Colchicine, Cupr;. Daphne; Dule.; Feir. pier.;
Formica; Guatac ; Trid; Jabor.; Kah bich ; Kali iod.;
Led., Lith oc., Lye.; Mang. ac.; Med ; Merc. s ; Nat lact.;
Nat m; Nat. sal; Nux v.; Ox. ac.; Pancyeat.; Phyt -
Puls, Quere.; Rhod.; Rhus t ; Sab., Sil.; Spig.; ‘Stellar ,
Sul; Taxus; Unie ac., Urt.

Debility after attack --- Bellis; Cyprip.

Gout of chest — Colch.

Gout of eyes __ Nux v

Gout of hands, feet, little swelling, subacute -~ [ed

Gout of heart Aur mur; Cact.: Cony., Cup: om

Gout of nerves (neuralgia) — Colch. ; Col; Sul

Gout of stomach — Hydroc ac; Nux m; Nux v; Puls.

Gout of throat —Colch ; Merc. s

Metastases to heart) - Colch.; Kal.

Metastases to stomach --- Ant. c.; Nux v.

Nervous restlessness — Ign

Retrocedent or suppressed --(Cajup; Nat. m; Ox. ac;
Rhus t.

Sub-acute —- Guaiac ; Led , Puls.

Uterine disorders -- Sab.

Inflammation-SYNOVITIS — Acute: Acon., Apis; Arn.; Bell ;
Rerbh vy Bry.s Canth; Fluor ac; Hef, Jod.; Led.;
Puly ; Rhus t., Rata: Sab.; St; Slag, Sticta.

Inflammation, chronic Am. ha or Benz. ac.; Berb. v.;
Cale. cs Cale. fl; Cale. Caust.; Hep; Jod ; Kal
tod., Merc. s.; Phyt.; Puis.; 3 Rhus t.; Ruta; Sil; Staph ;
Stellar., Sul.;' Tub.

Itching in bends of jotnts — Phos. ac.

Lameness - Abict; Cepa; Rhus t.; Ruta; Sul. See Stiff-
ness.

NODOSITIES, tophi -- \gn.; Am. benz.; Am. phos.; Ant c.:
aur; Bens ac. Verb vi; Cale c3 Cate. ren.; Caul.;
Caust.: Cim; Colo, Flat, Kucal.: Eup. perf.; Formica;
Graph., Guaiac , Hekla, lod; Kah ars Katt wd., hak
sil; Led., Lith’ co: Lye: Med; Nat. lact.; Nat. ureat.;
Piperaz.; Ruta; Sab, Staph., Sul; Urea; Uric ac
974 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

Hysterical joints -Arg n, Cham.; Cotyled.; Myper.; Ign.;

Abita

Inflammation (ARTHRITIS) — Acute: «Icon , Arbut.; Benz.
ae; Berb v; Bry.; Caust.; Cim.; Cinch ; Colch ; Gnaph ;
Guatac, ; Tod.; Kah bich.; Kali wd: Led, [al t., Lith.
ce: Mang ac ; Merc; Nat. sil; Nit ac; Phyt; Puls
Radium, Rhus t, Sab.; Sal. ac., Solid; Stellar.; Sul.
tereb , Viola tr. See Rheumatism,

Inflammation, chronic (arthritis deformans) — .\m phos.;
Ant oe. Arbut, Arn; -Ars.; Benz. ac.; Cale. c.; Cale.
ten, Caul.; Caust.; Cim.; Cinch, Colch; Colchicine,
Ferr ied; Ferr, pier; Guaiac., lod, Kal br.; Kali tod.,
Iact ace; Led; Tye.: Mere. c.; Nat. br: Nat. pz
siberas , Puls., Sab, Sal. ac; Sep., Sul.; Sul tered.,
Thyr,

Inflammation-GOUT \brot ; Acon.; Am. bens , Apis; Arn;
Ars; Aur. mur; Aur m,n; Bell; Benz. ac: Berb. ve5
Bry , Cayup., Cale. c¢3 Carls.; Cham; Chinoss Cimt)eh,
Colkh ; Colchicine, Cupr;. Daphne; Dule.; Feir. pier.;
Formica; Guatac ; Trid; Jabor.; Kah bich ; Kali iod.;
Led., Lith oc., Lye.; Mang. ac.; Med ; Merc. s ; Nat lact.;
Nat m; Nat. sal; Nux v.; Ox. ac.; Pancyeat.; Phyt -
Puls, Quere.; Rhod.; Rhus t ; Sab., Sil.; Spig.; ‘Stellar ,
Sul; Taxus; Unie ac., Urt.

Debility after attack --- Bellis; Cyprip.

Gout of chest — Colch.

Gout of eyes __ Nux v

Gout of hands, feet, little swelling, subacute -~ [ed

Gout of heart Aur mur; Cact.: Cony., Cup: om

Gout of nerves (neuralgia) — Colch. ; Col; Sul

Gout of stomach — Hydroc ac; Nux m; Nux v; Puls.

Gout of throat —Colch ; Merc. s

Metastases to heart) - Colch.; Kal.

Metastases to stomach --- Ant. c.; Nux v.

Nervous restlessness — Ign

Retrocedent or suppressed --(Cajup; Nat. m; Ox. ac;
Rhus t.

Sub-acute —- Guaiac ; Led , Puls.

Uterine disorders -- Sab.

Inflammation-SYNOVITIS — Acute: Acon., Apis; Arn.; Bell ;
Rerbh vy Bry.s Canth; Fluor ac; Hef, Jod.; Led.;
Puly ; Rhus t., Rata: Sab.; St; Slag, Sticta.

Inflammation, chronic Am. ha or Benz. ac.; Berb. v.;
Cale. cs Cale. fl; Cale. Caust.; Hep; Jod ; Kal
tod., Merc. s.; Phyt.; Puis.; 3 Rhus t.; Ruta; Sil; Staph ;
Stellar., Sul.;' Tub.

Itching in bends of jotnts — Phos. ac.

Lameness - Abict; Cepa; Rhus t.; Ruta; Sul. See Stiff-
ness.

NODOSITIES, tophi -- \gn.; Am. benz.; Am. phos.; Ant c.:
aur; Bens ac. Verb vi; Cale c3 Cate. ren.; Caul.;
Caust.: Cim; Colo, Flat, Kucal.: Eup. perf.; Formica;
Graph., Guaiac , Hekla, lod; Kah ars Katt wd., hak
sil; Led., Lith’ co: Lye: Med; Nat. lact.; Nat. ureat.;
Piperaz.; Ruta; Sab, Staph., Sul; Urea; Uric ac
LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM 9756

PAINS — In general: Am oic. \m om: trg. m., Bar co; Bry:
Cale, pe Cody hose. Dros; Euonym.; Jod., Kreos.,
lappa. Mang.. Sil. Sul. Zime om.

Bruised -  .ton., Biv, Iivper . Kal; Mez; Rhus t

Cutting --.Acon . Bry , Gaul, Cam. Kal.

Digging at P. M. Kali wd, Mang. ac: Mer. s

Drawing, tensive atloc, Am cy, Am my; Apoc. andr.;
Caust ; Cimex, Colch ; Gins , Mez; Puls, Rhus t.; Sut

Neuralgic Arg mi Ced, Col: Plumb ; Zine, m.

Rheumatic -\nict.: deen, Asclkep t3 Benz. ac., Berb v.,
Bry, Cail, Caust, Cim. Cineh.: Coleh.. Dig.; Diese ,
Fort: Fornnea: Guaae . lod. Kali bich.; Kal; Lact
acy Ged: Merc, s. Pinus sylv; Puls, Radium; Rham
ce; Rhod, Rius ¢ Ruta, Sab, Salol; Staph.; Stront.
See Rheumatism.

Soreness, tenderness -—.fion . \m = om.; Apis; <trn.;s Bell;
Bohs, Bry; Colh; Guarac, Ham; Hep: Kal: Led;
Tath ce: Mele; Phvt., Puls. Rhee ¢ Sab: Stietas Ver.
ay Verbase.

Stitching, tearing, shifting, erratic - \jns; Renz ac.; Bry;
Caust: Gam. Cinch, Coli, Guasae; Kah iod., Kal;
Led... Lath ce: Magno), Merce os. Phos. ac; Puls, Khas
t: Sul; Vaoov

Stiffness -— .\bnoi : Angust.. Apis: Apoc andr.; Arn.; Asclep.
1, Bar om: Ary; Caul, Caust, Colch ; Col; Mrose.;
Formiea: Gites: Guaiae , Vod.. Kal sod., Lyc.; Magnol ;
Men. +, Mes, Nux vo OL) as.. Petrol; /Ayt.; Pinus
svlv.: Rhus t., Sep: Stella’; Strych ; Sud; Thiosin.;
Triost > Verbase.

Swelling dion., Act sh. Anag: Apes Ars: Rell; Benz.
ac: Bry, Caust.; Cinch: Colh., Dig; Guaiac.; lod ;
Kalk m., Kali; Lea Lith, c., Mang ac; Afere. s.;
Phyt., Puls. Rham c.; Rhod, Rhus t.; Sab; Stellar ,
Sticta. .

Swelling, dark red - Bry.; Kal: Rhus ¢.

Swelling, pale, white — pis: Nur: Bry ; Cale. c.; Cale p.3
Cistuss Colh , Con.; Dig. Tod: Led; Merc. ¢.; Merc.
s., Phos. ac, Phos; Puls.; Sil, Sul; Symphyt.; Tub.
See Knee. .

Swelling, shining -Acon , .ipis, Bell.; Bry.; Nig , Mang.
ac : Sab

Ulceration of cartilages —- Merc. c

Weakness --.\con.* Bar. m ; Bov.; Carbo an.; Caust ; Cinch.;
Kuphorb.; Hippo; Led.; Phos.; Psor.; Mez.; Rhus t.;
Zing

Weakness, sprained easily - - Carbo an.; Hep.; Led.

ANKLES — Itching: Puls.; Rhus t; Selen.

Pain in general - Abrot.; Alum.; Am. c.; But. ac.; Caust.;
Euonym.: Lappa; Lathyr.; Nat. m; Sil; Tetradyn.; Ver
basc ; Mascum.

Brajecd, dislocated feeling —Bry.; Led.; Prun. sp.; Auta;
il; Sul.

Rheumatic — Act st.; Caul.; Caust.; Colch.; Guaco; Guaiac.;
Led.; Mang. ac.; Mang. mur.: Med.; Prophyl.; Puls.;
Radium; Khod.; Ruta; Sil.; Sul.; Urt.

Sprains -—— Led ; Nat. ars.; Nat. c, Ruta, Stront c.

Sprains, chronic — Bov , Stront .

976 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

Stiffness — Kali c.; Med.; Sep, Sul; Zinc. m.

Swelling — Apir; Arg. n., Ferr.; Ham; Led.; Lye; Med;
Mimosa; Plumb; Stann.; Stront c. See Dropsy.

Ulcer, itching — Sul

Weakness, “foot turns under’ -— Calc c; Calc. p.; Carbo
an., Caust., Cham, Ham; Led... Mang ac; Mang. mur.;
Med.; Nat ars., Nat c., Nat. m; Phos; Pinus sylv.;
Ruta; Sil., Sul.

ELBOWS — Numbness: Puls

Pains— Ant. c, Arg om, <Ars.; Caust.; Cinnab; Colch.;
Ferr omur., Guaco; Kah ¢: Kal., Lyc. Memsp, OL y
a>, Phos; Solan. lye; Sul.; Miscum, Zine ox

HIPS — Morbus Coxarius: Diseases of: 4con ; Arg. m, Ars.;
Ars ind, Cale ¢., Cale hyphos; Cale. 10d; Cale p.,
Canst., Cinch; Cistus, Col., Ferr. mv; Ferr. p.; Fluor
ac, Dep; Hippoz i Ilyper.; Tod; Auh c.; Kak tod;
Mec. 1. org ere; Phos. ac., Phos.; Rhus t.; Sui ;
Staph.; Still; Sué, Tub. See Coxalgia.

Luxation --- Col.

Pain (coxalgia) — 4isc ; Allium s.; Arg. m3; Ats.; Berb.
v; Bry; Cale. ¢; Cale. p, Carbo an.; Caust.; Cham.,
Chel.; Cistus. Colch : Col., Con.; Dros; Elat; Ferr. m,
Formica; Gels, Glycerin; Guaco; I/yper., Kali c.; Kaw
tod, Ted.; Tail t.; Tamul; Lye; Mag. mur.; Mev.,
Murex, Nat m.; Nat s.; Nux m.; Puls.; Radium; Solan.
n.; Stram.; Thuya; Tonge; Tromb.

Pain, ne if broken; as if pelvis was falling apart —~ .Esc.;

rue.

Pain, as if sprained - 24sc.; Am. m.; Cale. p; Caust.;
Col., Laur., Nat. m.; Puls, Rhus t.; Sarrac.

Pain, in left hip — Am. m.; Col.; Imd; Ov. g. p; Solan. n.,
Stram. .

Pain, in right hip -- \gar; Ant t.; Chel, Graph; Kali c.;
Led; Lu t., Limul.; Nux m; Pall.; Stram.

KNEES —Coldness: Agu; Apis; Cale. ¢; Carbo v. See Ex-
tremitics.

Cracking, on motion Benz ac , Caust., Coce.; Dinse ; Nat
ars.; Nux v

Dislocation of patella, on going upstairs - Can s.

Dropsy —- Caust.; Ced.; Tod

Herpes — Carbo v.; Graph, Petri.

Hygroma patella —-- Arn., Cale. p.. Jod.

Inflammation (synovitis, bursitis: housemaid’s knee):
Acute: -lion., clpis, Arn., Bell; Brs., Canth.; Cistus;
Helleb : Hep.; lod; Kah c.; Kali iod., Phos.; Puls. ;
Rhus t., Ruta, Sil., Slag, S'tcta, Sul. See Swelling.

Inflammation, chronic--- Ant t; Pens. a; Rerh v.; Cale
fu; Cale p; Hep.; Tad ; Nali iod.; Merc. s; Phyt.; Rhus
t, Ruta; Se.; Lub. ,

Numbness —- Carbo v.; Meli.

Numbness, extends to scretum, relieved by sitting — Bar. c.

PAINS — In general: Angust.; Apis; Bell.; Benz, ac.; Berb.
t.; Cale. c.; Can. ind.; Diose.; Elaps, Kal iod.; Kreos ;
Lappa; Mag. m.; Meli.; Mez.; Mur. ac.; Phos.; Sul.;
Xerophyl.

LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM 977

Aching — Anac.; Con.; Led.; Meli.; Ol. ). as.

Boring, relieved by walking ~- Indigo.

Bruised — Ars.; Berb. v., Sry.s Sarrac.

Digging, in left knee — Aur.; Caust.; Col.; Rhus t.; Spig.;

‘arax.

Drawing —- Calc. c.; Mag. m.; Mur. ac; Phos.; Sul.

y Rheumatic — Arg. m.; Benz. ac.; Berb. v.; yi Cinch.;
Cop.; Da yhne; Elaps; Diose.; Dulc.; Gui .5 Jacar.;
Kal c., Kah sod., Lact. ac.; Led; Mang. ac; Mel;
Merc.; ‘Nat. Pe; Puls.; Puls. nut.; Radium; Sab.; Sticta;
Viscum.

Tearing — Cale. ¢; Caust, Col; Granat.; Lye.; Merc;
Petrol.; Sticta; Tarax.; Tongo; "Ver. v.

Tensive, ¢rampy —— Anac; Caps.; Lathyr.; Paonia; Puls.;
Sil.; Verbasc,

POPLITEAL SPACE, itching — Lyc ; Sep

Popliteal space, pain — Caust.; lyc.; Phy sost.; Radium.

Popliteal space, prurigo — Arts.

REFLEXES — — Diminished, lost: Cur.; Oxytr.; Plumb. m.; Sec.;
ulphon.

Reflexes increased — Anlal; Can. ind.; Lathyr.; Mang. ac.
See Nervous System.

Stiffness of knees -- Kerb +v.; Bry; Lyc.; Mimosa; Petrol;
Sep; Sul.

Swelling — Apis; Arn, Bell; Benz. ac; Berb. v; Bry.
Cale. c., Cinch 5 Coce.; Kah tod., Lyc.; Mag c.3 Rhod.: >
Sal. ac., Sal.

Swelling, white -—.\con; Apis; Arn.; Cale. c.; Cale. Pi
Cistus, Kal tad., Ved.; Phos ac.; Phos.; Puls.; Rhus t.;
Sil; Slag; Sticta, Sul.; Tub.

Tenderness —— Apis; Berb, vi; Bry ; Cinch; Rhus t. See
Joints.

Ulceration of cartilage — Merc. d.

Weakness — Acon.; Anac.; Aur; Cob; Coce.; Diosc.; Hip-
pom ; Lact. ac.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Sul.

SHOULDERS-SCAPUL<E — Deltoid, pain, rheumatism: Ferr.
p.; Glycerin; Lycopers.; Nux m; Ox. ac.; Rhus t.;
Sang., Sticta; Syph.; Urt.; Viola od.; Zine. ox.; Zing.

PAINS —In general: Alum., Am. phos.; Anag.; Arn.; Aza-
dir ; Bar. ¢.; Can. ind.; Chel.; Coce. ; ; Con.; Fagop.; Jugl
r.; Kreos.; Lyc.; Menisp.; Myr.; Nat. ars.; Nat, ¢.; Nit.
ac.; Ran. b.; Sep.; Ver. a; Viscum.

Pain, between scapule — Asc. ; > Ars.; Bry.; Camph.;
Chenop.; Euonym.; Granat.; Guaiac.; Mag. s.

Pain burning, in small spots — Agar.; Phos.; Ran. bs Sad.

Pain, drawing — Ars.; Berb. v.; Cham.; Col.;

Pain, in left — 4Esc.; Agar.; Ant. te dispar: Cham;
Chenop. gl.; Col.; Eup. purp.; Ferr. mj; Led; Lob.
syph.; Nux m.; Onosm.; Rhodium; Stram.; Sul.

Pain, in left, lower angle ~_ Chenop. gl.; Cupr. ars.; Ran. b.

Pain, in right — Abies c.; Am. m.; Bry.; Chel.; Chenop. gl;
Col.; Ferr. p.; Ferr. mur.; Guaco: Tehthy.; Ipomea;
{ust c.; Kak ¢.; Kal.; Mag. c.; Pall; Phyt.; Puls, nut.;

mn, b.; Sang.; Solan. "Wes 3 Sticta; Stront.; ; Ure.

Pain, in right, lower angle— Chel ; Chenop. anth.; Kali c.;
Merc.; Pod.
978 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

Pains, rheumatic — A\con; Am. caust; Berb. v.; Bry.;
Colch.; Ferr. mur; Ferr. p.; Guaiae; Ham.: Kali c.;
Kal.; Lact. ac, Led.; Iath. c; Lith. Jact.; Med.; Ol. an;
Pall.; Phvt, Prim; Radium; Ran b, Rhod: Rhus 1.
Sang; Stellar , Sticta, Stront; Sul; Syph; Urt.; Viola

Pains, worse singing, using voice -- Stann

Stitches, tearing — Am. m.; Bry.; Ilyper.; Kali c.3; Lye;
Mag. c ; Nit. ac

Stiffness — Cocc.; Dulc.; Granat ; Indium; Phvt, Prim v.;
Sang, Senec. jac.

WRISTS — Ganglion, on back: Beng. ac, Cale. fl; Phos;
Rhus t.; Ruta; Sil : Thuya.

Gouty deposits "Cale. 3 ; Ruta.

PAINS —In general: Abrot.; Act. Sei Am. ¢: Dism.; Carbo
an., Caul., Chel; Hippom.; Kali c., Nat. ..; Paonia:
Prophyl ; Rhod; Ruta, Sep: Sal; Sul; Wit. Viola ed.

Cramps, spasms, painful (writer's cramp) —-. iru. m3 Arn;
Bell; Bellis; Caust.; Con. Cupr., Cycl. Ferr. iod.;
Gels.; Mag. p.. Nux v., Picr ac, Ran. b.; Ruta, Sec :
Subs "Stann., Staph.; Strveh , Sul ae.; Viola od., Zine

Rheumatic — Abrot.: : Act. sp; Benz ac; Cale. c; Caul.;
Caust., Colch.; Hippom; Tact ac, Lye; Propyl; Rhod.;
Rhus ts Rhus v., Ruta, Sab., Sep; Solan lye.; Ulnuas;
Variol.; Viola od ; Wycth.

Sprained, dislocated feeling —- Bry.; Cistus; Eup. _ perf.;
Hippom.; Ox. ac.; Rhus t.; Ruta, Ulnus.

Paralysis --Cun., Cur, Vippom.; Plumb ac, Plumb, m;
Picr, ac.; Ruta; Stann, See Nervous System,

NECK — Burning: Guaco

Cracking of cervical vertebre, on motion -— \lee; Cocc.;
Nat. c., Niecol ; Ol an.; Thuya.

Emaciation - - Nat. m. See Generalities

Eruption — Anac ; Clem; Lye.; Nat. m.; Petrol, Sep.

Fullness, must loosen collar—-4my/, Fel taunm, Glan:
Lach.; Pyr.; Sep.

Itching —- Ant. c.

Muscles, cervical, contraction, rigidity --- Cic , Cim.; Nicot ;
Strych

Muscles, cervical, shooting - - Sul ac.

Muscles, cervical, twitching —- Agar.

Muscles, sterno-cleido-mastoid — Geis.; Rhod.:  Tarax ;
Trifol. See Torticollis.

NAPE OF NECK: PAINS — In general: Acon.; -Esc.; Am. c.;
Bell.; Chin. ars.; Cim.; Col.; Fel_tauri; Ferr. pier - Gels.,
Graph. ; Ilyper.; Jug}. c; Lach; Lyc.; Myr.: Nat. choles;
Nat. s.; Paris; Ver. a.; Vib. op; X-ray; Zinc ‘.

Aching — Adon. v; Alsc.: Angust., Bapt.: Caust.. Con.;
Gels.; Guaiac.; Paris; Radium; Ver. v.; Zinc, m.

Dislocated, bruised feeling — Bell.; Caust.; Fagop.; Lach-
nant,

Rheumatic -— Acon.; Bry.; Cale. p.; Caust.; Cim.; Colch ;
Dalc.; Guata. > dod.3 Lachnanth.; Puls.; Radium; Rhod.;
Rhus t.; Sang.: Stellar.; 3 Sticta.
LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM 979

Tearing, shooting, stitching — 4con.; Asar.; Bad.; Bar. c;
Bell., Berb. v ; Bry.; Chin. ars.; Colch.; 3 Ferr. pier.; Mag.
ps Nux v3 Strvch, *Xanith,

Tension —Con.; Scp.; Sul.; Tub.

Tensive numbness -- Plat

Stiffness = Acon., Ant t.; Bell.; Bry, Cale. ¢; Cale. caust.:
Cale. py Caust., Cham ; Chel, 'Cim.: Coce ; ; _Colch.;
Dual, Ferr p.: Gels.; Guaiac.; ; Hyper ; ; Jugl. c.; Kali c.;
Lac ¢; Lachnanth., Lyc; Mag. ¢ , Med.; Menthol; Mere
+. 7., Nicot.; Nit. ac; Nux v., Pampin.; Petrol.; Phos.;
Phyt. Puls; Radium, Rhodium; Rhod.; Rhus v; Sep.;
Stellar + Stieta; Sul; Trifol.; Vinca m.; "X-ray.

Swelling — Cate. c; lod.; Lye; Phos.; Sal.

Tenderness -- Amyl, Bry., Cim., Kal perm.; Lack.; Tarax.

Tumor, fatty -——- Bar c.

Veins, swollen — Op.

Weakness, unable to hold head up - .{lrut., -Lth.; Colch ,
Fagop ; Kalic., Sale See Head.

Wry neck (torticollis) — 4con., Agar.; Atrop.; Bell.; Bry ;
Cim , Colch.; (uaiae j 5 TIvos.; Ign.; Lachnanth; Lyc.;
Mag. . Myg; : Nux v., Strych.; Thuya,

RHEUMATISM: TYPE—Articular, acute, RHEUMATIC
FEVER: -lcon ; Agar; Am benz; Am. caust.; Ant. t.;
Apis, .irn,, Ais; Bell, Benz, ac; Berb. v.; Bry.; Cact.
Cale oc, Cale. Pp; Camph ; Cascara, Cham.; Chin. s.;
Cam: Cinch; Clem; Colch, Colchicine; Col.; Dulc.;
Eup. poof; Ferr fp. Formica; Franciscea; Gaulth.; Gels.;
Gins , Guarae.; iam. ; Alymosa, Kah bich., Kali ¢; ; Kali
yod.. Kaly m; Led.; Lye.; Macrot.; Merc. s.; Merc.
”, Methvl. cat Nie lact.; ; Nat sal.; Nux v.; Nyetanth.;
Ox. ac; Petrol: Phyt.; Prophyl ; Puls. » Ran. b.; Rham.
cy, Rhod.; Rhus ¢, Ruta, Sal. ac.; Sang.; Spig.; Stellar. ;
Sticta; Still.; Strych.; Sul, Syph; Thuya; Tilia; Ver.
a; Vern wm, Viola od.

Ascending pains —-.\rn.; Led.

Descending pains - Cact.; Kal

Erratic, wandering pai ins — Apoc. andr.; Caul.; Cim.;
Coleh.; Kali bich.; Kali s.; Lac c.; Mang.; Phyt.;
Puls, Vuls. nut.; Rhal Stellar., Sul.

Fibrous tissues (sheaths, tendons) — Arn.; Formic acid;
Phyt.; Rhod.; Rhus ¢.

Joints, large —.fcon ; Arbut; Arg. m.; Asclep. 3.3; Bry.;
Dros; Verc., Mimosa; Rhus t; Sticta,

Joints, small -— Act sp, Benz. ac.; Bry.; Caul; Colch.;
Kali bich ; Lact. ac; Led., Lith ¢; Lith. lact.; Puls.;
Rhod.. Ruta; Sub, Vila od.

Mono-articular — .Acon ; Apis; Bry.; Caust; Cinch.; Cop.;
Mere Sce Joints.

Poly-articular —- .\in.; Pry.; Guaiac.; Puls See Erratic
Pains.

CONCOMITANTS — Alternates with diarrhaa, dysentery:
Abrot., Duic.; Gnaph.; Kals bsch,

Alternates, with indigestion — Kali bich.

Alternates, with urticaria -——Urt.

Debility — 4rs.; Cale p.; Chin. s.; Cinch.; Colch,; Ferr.
carb.; sul,
980 LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM

Fever, adynamic —Rry ; Rhus t.

Fever, remittent — Chin. s.

Metastases, to brain — Bell.; Op.

Metastases, to heart - Adon v.; Avena; Cact ; Kal.; Lith.
c.; Prophyl; Spig.

Mild cases, in nervous persons — Viola od

Nervousness, intense pains — Cham.; Coff ; Rhus t.

Numbness --- Acon ; Cham.; Led.; Rhus t

Restlessness — Acon., Caust.; Cim.; Puls, Rhus t.

Secretions checked — Abrot.

Sensitiveness to cold) -Ted; Mere.

Sleeplessness —- Vell.; Cale. c 3; Coff.; Ign

Skin diseases, acute, after — Dulc.

Sweating - Calc. c., Hep 3 Tact. ac.; AMlerc ; Rham c.; Sal.
ac., Tiha

Urticarial eruption’ — Urt.

AGGRAVATIONS — At night: --.4con ; Arn; Cham.; Cim.;
Colh,, Teucal.; Kal tod.; Kali m.; Kal. Lact ac; Wed.;
Merc.; Phyt.; Puls.; Rhod; Rhus t. Sars.; Sil; Sul.

Before storm —DPuls ; Rhod , Rhus t.

Crosswise, side to side - -l.uc c.

Every other day - Cinch.

From cold, dry weather --4con, Biy; Caust; Nux m;
Rhod

From damp, wet weather --Arn; Ars; Cale. p.; Cim.;
Colch.; Dule., Kali iod.; Aferc; Fhyt., Ran. b.; Rhod.-:
Rhus t. Sars; Vor a.

From melting snow — Calc. p

From motion — Act sp.; Ams, Arn, Brv.; Cale c.; Cim;
Clem.;. Csnch.; CoJch.; Formica; Guaiac ; Tod.; Kah m.;
Kal.; Lae c.; Led.; Merc , Nux v.; Phyt.; Ran. b.; Sal.
ac; Stellar

From rest -—— Euphorb.: Puls ; Rhod ; Rhus t.

From sweating -~Ilep; Merc.; Taha

From touch -- Acon.; Apis; Arn.; Bry.; Conch, Colch.; Tod.;
Lae c.; Ran. b., Sal. ac.

From warmth — Cham.; Kali m.; Led, Merc.; Pulse.

AMELIORATIONS — From motion, walking: — Cham.; Dulec.;

Ferr m., Lyc., Puls., Rhod.; Rhus t., Ver. a
From pressure -- Bry.; Formica.
From rest —- Biy
From warmth —- ‘Ars.; Bry.; Caust.: Kah bich.; Nux m.;
#Rhus ty Sal.
From water, cold to feet — Led., Sars
In damp weather — Caust.
In open air — Kali m.; Puls.

ARTICULAR, CHRONIC — Am. phos.; Ant. e. Anthrok.; Benz,
ac.: Berb. v5 Bry.; Cale. ¢.; Cale. caust.; Carbon. &:
Caul.; Cauct.; Cim.; Colch; Dule.: Ferr.; Guaiac.; Hep.;
Tod; Kali bich.: Kali c.; Kali ied: Led.; Lsth. ¢.; Lye;
Med.; Merc ; Mez.; Oly. rf 'Petrol.; Phyt.; Pals.;
Rhod.; Rhus +.; Ruta; si; *Stellar.; Stll.; Suk; Sul.
tereb,; Taxus. See Joints.
LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM 981

ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS Arbut . cfr, .trs. Benz. acy
Cale. c.; Caps.; Caul.; Caust, Cim.; Colch.; Colchicine;
Dule., Ferr iod.: Ferr yact ; Guarac., Jod. Kah ec,
Kal: t0d., Tact ac.; Ted.; Lyc ; Mang. ac; Methyl. bl.;
Mere. c.; Nat. Py : Pip. menth. : Puls.; Rhod: Sab, Sal
acs Sep.; Sul.; Sul. tereb.; Thymus Ext.; “Thyr, See
oints.

Chronic, secondary to uterine disorder -- Cau); Cim , Puls.;
a

Gonorrheeal -- Acon; .frg)om.. Arnis Bry.; Caust; Cim;
Clem; Con; Daphne, Guaiac.: Tod.; Irwin; Jacar.; Kali
hich. ; "Kali iod ; Kal.; Med; Merc.; Nat. s.; Phyt.; Puls.;
Rhus t; Sars.; Sul Thuva

Intercostal ~ Arn.; Cim.; Phyt.: Ran. b.; Rhus t

Muscular (myalgia) — Acon.; Ant. tes ‘Apis ; Arn: Bry;
Cale. c.: Cascera; Caust ; Chin. s.; Cim., Cinch., Colch:
Dute.; Ferr ; Gels.; Glycerin: Gnanh.;_ Ham; 5 per.;
facar: Lye.; Macrot.; Merc.; Phos.; ; Phyt ; Ran, b.; Rhod.;

hus t.; Sang.; Sil; Sul.; Syph.; Ver. v.

Paralytic -- Caust., Lathyr , Phos, Sce Chronic.

Periosteal—- Bell: Cham.; Colch.; Cycl; Guaiae.; Kali
bich., Kali iod; Merc.; Mes., Phos.; Phyt.; Sars.; Sil.

Subacute — Dulce. /cd., Mere.; Puis, Rhus t.

Syphilitic — Sce Pernosteal
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

BRONCHIAL TUBES— ASTHMA: Remedies in general:

Acon,, Alumen; Ambros.; Amyl, Ant. ars; Ant. 6.;
Apis; .fral; drs, Ars, iod ; Atrop 3 Bac.; Bell. ; Blatta
ortent., Brom; Bry ; Cinch.; Coff.; Carbo v.; Chin. ars.;
Chiorum; Cic.3 Coca; Cocaine; Crot. t, Cupr. ac.; Cupr.
ary; Dros; Dule.; Egg Vaccine; Glon.; Grind.; Hep.;
Ifvdroc. ac., Whe; Iod.; Ipec.; Kal bich ; Kah c.; Kah
chlor.; K@l tod., Kal n., Kah p.; Tach 3 Led.; Lob
afl; Lye.; Magnolia; Meph.; Morph.; Naja; Naph.;
Aat os., Nux vu, Passifi.. Pothos, gor.; Ptel.; Pulys.,
Onebr y) Sabad ; Samb.; Sang ; Sella; Scrophul.; Sifph ,
Stercul., Stram.; Strych «> Sul; Syph.; Tab.; Telea ar.;
Thuva; “Tub , Ver, a.; Ver. vi; ; Viscum: Zine. m.; Zing.

TYPE — OCCURRENCE — Alternates with eruptions: Calad.;

Caust.; Rhus t; Sul.

Alternates, with itching rash — Calad.

Alternates, with spasmodic vomiting — Cupr. m ; Ipcc.

Anger, from --- Chai; Nux v.

Cardiac -Cact, I‘igitaline; Grind. sq; Stroph. See Heat.

Epiglottis, spasm or weakness — Med

Eruptions, suppressed, from — Ars; Hep.; Psor.; Sil.

Foot sweat, suppressed, from — Ol. an.

Hay aethma > Atal does.. Ars. 10d; Chin. ars.; Ipec.;
Lob inf; Naph.; Nat. s., Nux v.; Sabad.; Sang.; Sticta;
Sul. 10d See Rhinius (Nose).

Hebdomadal -- Cinch, Ign.

Humid- -.\con. Jint, tod., Ars, Bac; Can.
Cochlear.; € upe Dut, Eueal ; Huphgeb” Saks onng
Hypet., lod; Kah bieh., Nat. s. 3 Pulmo v.; Sabal;

Seneqa, Stann, . Suh, Thuya

Humid, in children - - Nat. gs. Samb.; Thuya

Millars | Arum drac.: deundy; Coral.: Cupr ; Guarea; Hep.:
Ipec.; Lach, Lob. intl; Mosen.; Poth; Samb ee
Laryngismus stridulus

Miner's --Card m., Nat. ars.

Nervous —- Acon.,. Ambra; .\myl, .fsaf.; Chin s.; Cina;
Coff; Cupry; Giind.; MWadra. ac.. Ipec.; Kali p.; Lob.
mil; Afosch.: Nux m.; Nat «, Sumb; Telea ar.; Thy-
mus; Val., Wer. a.

Periodical —-.4rs; Chin. ars; Cinch; Ipec.

Preceded by coryza ~-.\1al , Naja; Nux v.

Preceded by formication — Cistus; Lop. intl.

Preceded by rose cold — Sang.

Recetit, uncomplicated cases —— Hydroc ac.

Senile cases — Bar, m.

Tétter recedes with attack = - Sul.

CONCOMITANTS — With bronchial catarrh: —Acon.; Ant.

ty clos. Bry, Cupr. ac; Eriod.; Eucal.: Grind.; Ipec.;
Wali rd.; Heb. atl; Nats; Onisete: Sabal; Sul. | See
Humid.
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 983

With burning in throat and chest — Aral.
With constriction of throat -Cham.; Dros.; Hydroc. ac.;
Lob. infl.; Mosch.

With cramp, muscular spasm of various parts - Cupr. m.

With cyanosis — Ars.; Cupr.; Samb.

With diarrhea following -- Nat s.

With dysuria, nocturn: Solid.

With gastric derangement — Arg. n; Bry.; Carbo v.; Ipec.;
m.; Lob. inf.; Lye; Nux vs; Puls.; Sang., Ver v.,

with vpout, rheumatism -—Led.; Sul.; Viscum.

With hemorrhoids — Juncus, Nua v.

With hydrothorax — Colch.

With insomnia -—Chloral; Telea ar.

With nausea, cardiac weakness, vertigo, vomiting, weak
stomach, cold knees — J.ob. infi

With palpitation — Ars.; Cact ; Eucal., Puls.

With thirst, nausea, stitches, burning in chest — Kali n.

MODALITIES — AGGRAVATION: After sieep: <Aral.; Giind .
Lach ; Samb.

At night, lying down — Aral.; Ars.; Cistus; Con; Ferr.
ae. Grind.; Lach.; Merc. pr. rub.; Naja; Puls; Samb.;
ul,

From cold, damp weather — Ars.; Dule., Nat. s. See
Humid.

From cold, dry weather — Acon ; Caust.; Hep

From falling asleep -— Am. c.; Grind., Lac c.; Lach ; Merc.
pr. ruo., Ov.

From food — Kali p; Nua v., Puls.

From inhaling dust -~ /fi'c, Kah c; ; Pothos.

From odors — Sang.

From sitting up — Ferr. ac; Laur.; Psor.

From jaln — Uros. : Meph

In early A. i. Am. ¢: Ant. t; Ars.; Grind.; Kali bich.;
Kali c.; Nat. 3.; Nux v.; Zing.

In spring — Aral.

In summer — Syph.

AMELIORATION — At sea: rom

From bending forward, rocking - ~ Kali c

From eructation — Carbo vy Nux v.

From expectoration — Aral.; Eriod.; Grind.; Hyper.; Ipec.;
Kali bich.; Zinc, m.

From lying down, keeping arms spread apart --- Peor,

From motion --Ferr, m.; Lob. infi.

From sitting up--.\rs.; Kali ¢; Mere. pr. rub.; Nux v.;
als.

From stool — Pothos.

From vomiting — Cupr. m.

‘In.damp weather — Caust ; Hep.

In open air — Naph.

BRONCHIECTASIS: BRONCHORRHOEA — Dilatation, with
profuse, fetid, purulent sputum; Ace a > AHwm s,
lumen, Ant t; Bac., Bals, per., acy Cok. c.
Eucal.; Ferr. iod., Grind ; Hep., iene "Kah bich.. Kali
c.; Kreos.: Lye.: Myos.: "Myrt.’ ch; Puls.; Sang; Sil.;
Stann., Sul.: Rub. See Chronic Bronchitis. .
984 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

BRONCHITIS — Inflammation, acute: — 4con ; Am. c.; Am.
phos; Ant. ars; Ant iod.; -int ¢., Ars. iod.; Ars.3
Asclep t; Aviate; Beil., Blatta or ; Brom.; Bry ; Caust ;
Cham.; Cinch ; Colch ; Cop: Dide.; Eup. perf.; Euphras.; ;
err, p.; Gels; Grind Tep., Hyos.; 3. Ipec.; "Kali bich.;
Tob. infl, Mang. ac; Merc. s, Naph.; Nat. ars.; Nit.
ac.: Phos, Piloc ; Puls ; Rhus t ; Rumex; Sang.; Sang. n.,
Sella; Solid; Spong ; Sticta; Sul.; Sul. ac; T uya;
Tub; Ver a; Ver v.; Zinc. m,

Capillary -.\m. c; Am_ iod.; Ant. ars.; Ant. t.; Ars.5
Bac, Bell; Bry; Cale. c.; Camph; Carbo v.; Chel.;
Cup: ac.; Ferr ps Ipec.; Kali ¢; Kali iod.; Kaohn;
Nu. ae . Phos. ac, Phos.; Senega; Solanine; Sul.; Tereb.;

Chronic” (winter catarrhs) — Alumen; <Alum.;  Ammon.;
sim. c, Am. caust.; Am. m; Ant. ars.; Ant. iod.; Ant.
s a, Ant. t., Ars. 10d.; Ars., Vac.; Bals. per.; Bar. c.;
Rar. m; Cake ec; Cale iod; Cale. sil.; Canth.; Carbo
an.; Carbo «@., Ceanoth ; Chel; Cench.; Coecus; Con.;
Cof.; Cub.; Dros.; Duk.; Ertod ; Eucal.; Grind.; Hep.;
Vlydr.: Hyos.; Ichth.; Jod.; Jpec.; Kah bich.; Kali c.;
Kali hypophos.; Kali iod.; Kah s.; Kreos.; Lach; Lye;
Merc. s, Myos; Myrt. ch; Nat. m; Nat. s.; Ntt ac.;
Nux v, Phos.; Pix 1; Puls; Rumex; Sabal; Sang;
Sella, See ; Serega; Sep i Sil; Silph.; Spong.; Stann.;
Strych ; Sul.; Taxus; Tereb ; Tub.

Fibrinous -—( ai. acet., Bry , Kal bich.; Phos.

Toxemic — \m. c.; Ant. t., Bry.; Colch.; Diphtherotox ,
Merc. ¢.

Irritation of tubes —— Acet  ac.;  Acon.; Alumen: Ambros ;
Brom.; Bry.; Chlorum; Ferr. Hep.; Phos.; Piloc.;
Rumex; Sang. n.; Spong. Sce Bion seed

Sensitiveness, to cold air-- Allium s.;  Aral.; Bac.; Cale.
sl; Cham ; Cinch.; Coral, Dube; Hep.; ‘Tod.; Kali c.;
Mang. ac.; Merc. s : Naya; Psor.; Sil; Tub.

CHEST — Affections, after brain fag -— Phos. ac.

affections, after operations, for fistule —Berb v.; Calc.
p.; Sil.

Affectione, after operations, for hydrothorax, empyema —

rot.

Affections, after suppressed skin eruptions — Hep.

Affections, in circumscribed spots, persistent after inflam-
mation -— Senega.

Affections, in stone cutters —~ Sil.

Burning - Acct. ac.; Acon.; Am. c.; Am. m; Ant t.; Apis:
Ars.; Bell; Brom.; Bry; Cale. c.; Carbo v.; Cie;
Euphorb.; Kreos.; Lye; Sag. m.; Mang. ac.; Merc.,
Mere sul; Mez.; Myrtis, OL 3. as.; Op.; hos, Primula;
Ran. sc.; "Sang. : Sang. n.; Spong.: Sus.: Wyeth.; Zine. m.

Coldness-- Abies c.; .{m. m=; Brom.; Carbo an.; Cistus;
Cowal.; Elaps; "lelod.; “Kati c.; Lith. ¢.

ions on — Arundo: Jugl. c.; Kali br ; Lye.; Petrol.

‘|, Inability to He down (ortho; y —Acon. fer.;  4rs.,
Conv.; Dig.; Grind.; Lach.; Mag. p.; Puls.; Viscum. See
Respiration.

Inebility, te lie on left side -— Phos.; Puls.
984 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

BRONCHITIS — Inflammation, acute: — 4con ; Am. c.; Am.
phos; Ant. ars; Ant iod.; -int ¢., Ars. iod.; Ars.3
Asclep t; Aviate; Beil., Blatta or ; Brom.; Bry ; Caust ;
Cham.; Cinch ; Colch ; Cop: Dide.; Eup. perf.; Euphras.; ;
err, p.; Gels; Grind Tep., Hyos.; 3. Ipec.; "Kali bich.;
Tob. infl, Mang. ac; Merc. s, Naph.; Nat. ars.; Nit.
ac.: Phos, Piloc ; Puls ; Rhus t ; Rumex; Sang.; Sang. n.,
Sella; Solid; Spong ; Sticta; Sul.; Sul. ac; T uya;
Tub; Ver a; Ver v.; Zinc. m,

Capillary -.\m. c; Am_ iod.; Ant. ars.; Ant. t.; Ars.5
Bac, Bell; Bry; Cale. c.; Camph; Carbo v.; Chel.;
Cup: ac.; Ferr ps Ipec.; Kali ¢; Kali iod.; Kaohn;
Nu. ae . Phos. ac, Phos.; Senega; Solanine; Sul.; Tereb.;

Chronic” (winter catarrhs) — Alumen; <Alum.;  Ammon.;
sim. c, Am. caust.; Am. m; Ant. ars.; Ant. iod.; Ant.
s a, Ant. t., Ars. 10d.; Ars., Vac.; Bals. per.; Bar. c.;
Rar. m; Cake ec; Cale iod; Cale. sil.; Canth.; Carbo
an.; Carbo «@., Ceanoth ; Chel; Cench.; Coecus; Con.;
Cof.; Cub.; Dros.; Duk.; Ertod ; Eucal.; Grind.; Hep.;
Vlydr.: Hyos.; Ichth.; Jod.; Jpec.; Kah bich.; Kali c.;
Kali hypophos.; Kali iod.; Kah s.; Kreos.; Lach; Lye;
Merc. s, Myos; Myrt. ch; Nat. m; Nat. s.; Ntt ac.;
Nux v, Phos.; Pix 1; Puls; Rumex; Sabal; Sang;
Sella, See ; Serega; Sep i Sil; Silph.; Spong.; Stann.;
Strych ; Sul.; Taxus; Tereb ; Tub.

Fibrinous -—( ai. acet., Bry , Kal bich.; Phos.

Toxemic — \m. c.; Ant. t., Bry.; Colch.; Diphtherotox ,
Merc. ¢.

Irritation of tubes —— Acet  ac.;  Acon.; Alumen: Ambros ;
Brom.; Bry.; Chlorum; Ferr. Hep.; Phos.; Piloc.;
Rumex; Sang. n.; Spong. Sce Bion seed

Sensitiveness, to cold air-- Allium s.;  Aral.; Bac.; Cale.
sl; Cham ; Cinch.; Coral, Dube; Hep.; ‘Tod.; Kali c.;
Mang. ac.; Merc. s : Naya; Psor.; Sil; Tub.

CHEST — Affections, after brain fag -— Phos. ac.

affections, after operations, for fistule —Berb v.; Calc.
p.; Sil.

Affectione, after operations, for hydrothorax, empyema —

rot.

Affections, after suppressed skin eruptions — Hep.

Affections, in circumscribed spots, persistent after inflam-
mation -— Senega.

Affections, in stone cutters —~ Sil.

Burning - Acct. ac.; Acon.; Am. c.; Am. m; Ant t.; Apis:
Ars.; Bell; Brom.; Bry; Cale. c.; Carbo v.; Cie;
Euphorb.; Kreos.; Lye; Sag. m.; Mang. ac.; Merc.,
Mere sul; Mez.; Myrtis, OL 3. as.; Op.; hos, Primula;
Ran. sc.; "Sang. : Sang. n.; Spong.: Sus.: Wyeth.; Zine. m.

Coldness-- Abies c.; .{m. m=; Brom.; Carbo an.; Cistus;
Cowal.; Elaps; "lelod.; “Kati c.; Lith. ¢.

ions on — Arundo: Jugl. c.; Kali br ; Lye.; Petrol.

‘|, Inability to He down (ortho; y —Acon. fer.;  4rs.,
Conv.; Dig.; Grind.; Lach.; Mag. p.; Puls.; Viscum. See
Respiration.

Inebility, te lie on left side -— Phos.; Puls.
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 985

Inability, to lie on right side —- Merc

Itching, extending to nares—Coccus, Con.; ITod.; Ipec.;

uls.

Lightness, emptiness, eviscerated feoling —Cocc.; Nat.
s.; Phos.; Stann.

PAINS —In general: Abrot; <Acal.; 4con., Apis, Arg. nn;
Arn,; Ars.; Bell., Bor.; Brom; Bry.; Cact., Cale. cj
Caul.; Caust.; Chel.; Ctm.; Collins.; Commocl.; Crot. t.;
Dig.; Elaps; Eriod., Gadus; Hydroc. ac.; Jugl c; Kal
c., Kah oni; Kreos., Med.; Morph.; Myrtis; Ox. ac.;
Phos., Pothos; Psor.; Puls; Ran b., Rumex Sang.;
Solan fyc.; Sticta; Strych. p.; Sucein., Sul.

Bruised, ulcerative -- Ampel; Arn. Cale. c; Eup. perf.;
Kreos.; Lyc.; Phasecl.; Psor., Puls., Ran. b, Ran! sc;

. an

Constriction, must frequently breathe deeply to expand
lungs: Adon. v; Asaf; Bry - Dig.; Ign; lod.; Lach.;
Mel; Maillef ; Mosch., Nat. s.; Phos; Scilla; Xanth.

Constriction, spasmodic, tightness, fullness, oppression —
Abies n.; clcon; Adren; Ambros; Am. c; Ant. 4.;
Apis; Apoc , Apum gr., Aral.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Asaf.; Bac.;
Bell.; Brom.; Bry.; Cact., Cale. ars.; Cale. ¢., Caps.;
Carbo v.; Cham.; Chlorum; Ctc.; Coca; Cocc.; Coff.;
Cupr. ac., Cupr. m; Dig., Diose.; Dule.; Ferr. m., Ferr.
p.; Glon.; Glycerin; rind.; Hematox.; Hep.; Hydroc.
ac.; Ipec., Justicia, Kah tieh.; Keli c.; Kah ., Kreos.;
Lach., Tact. v.; Laur.; Lob. infl.; Lye.; Morph., Mosch.;
Naja; Naph; Nat. ars.; Nat. s.; Nit. sp. d.; Nuwe v5
Ornothog.; Ox. ac; Phcs., Puls, Ran. b; Ruta, Samb.,
Sang.; Senega; Sep; Sil.; Silph; Solan. n, Spig.,
Spong.; Stram.; Strych ; Sul. ac, Sxl.; Ver v.

Cutting —-Hry., Kali c; Kaho n.; Sul; Zinc. m.

Pressing, heaviness, weight — 4bics n.; Abrot.; Acon.; Am.
c., Anac.; Arg. ni; .Arn.; Ars., Aur.; Bry.; Cact.;
Cale. ¢., Cham.; Chel; Ferr iod.; Hematox.; Ipec.;
Kali n.; Kreos., Lil. t., Lob. infl., Lyc.; Phos. ac.; Phos,
Prun. pad.; Ptel.; Puls., Ran. b.; Ruta; Samb.; Sang.
n; Senega; Sil., Spong.; Sul.; Ver. v.

Stitching, tearing, darting, shooting — Acon.; Agar.; Al-
hum s.; Am, c.; -Ant t.; Apmum gr; Ars.; Asclep. t.5
Bell.; Berb. v.; Bor.; Brom.; Bry.; Calc. c.; Canth.; Caps.;
Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Caust.; Chel.; Cim.; Cinch.; Coc-
cus; Colch.; Crot. t.; Zlaps; Formica; Guasac.; Hematox.;
Inula; Kal: c., Kali 1od ; Kal.; Lob. card ; Lye.; Menthol;
Merc. c.; Merc.; Myitis; Nat. s.; Nit. ac; Nux v.; Ob
an.; Ol. jy. as.; Paonia; Phell.; Phos.; Ran, b.; Rhod.;
Rhus t.; Rhus r.; Rumex; Sang.; Scilla; Sep.; Sil.;
Spig.; Stann.; Sticta; Sul.; Ther.; Thuya; Trill; Zing.

LOCATION — Cartilages, costal: Perichondritis: Bell.; Cham.;
Cim.; Guaiac.; Oleaud.; Plumb.; Ruta.

Infra-mammary -— Cim./ Puls.; Ran. b.; Ustil. See Female
Sexual System.

Intercostal (pleurodynia)— Acon.; Am. c.; Aristol.; Arn;
Ars,; Asclep. t.; Azadir.; Bor.; Bry.; Cawst.;  Chel.;
Cim., Colch.; Echin.; Gaulth.; Guaiac.; Kali c; Nux v.;
Ox. ac; Phos.; Fuls.; Ran. b.; Rham. c.; Rhod.; Rhus c.;
Rhus t., Rumex; Senega; Sinap. n.; Sul ac
986 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

Lung, left: Apex and middle portion — Acon.; Am. c.
Ams., Ant s a.; Crot. t.; Lllic; Lob. card; Myrts
Pzonia; Phos; Pix 1; Puls; Ran. b.; Rumex; Sil.
Spig.; Stann.; Sticta; Sul; Ther.; Ustil.

Lower portion - - Agar., Ampel.; Asclep. t.; Cale. p.; Cim.
Lob. syph., Lye ; Myos.; Nat. s.; Ox. ac.; Rumex, Scilla

il.

Lung, right: Apex and middle portion -— Abies c; rs.
Bor.. Calc. c., Commocl.; Crot. t; Elaps; Eriod ; Jlhe.
lodof.; Phell.; Sang.; Upas.

Lower portion —~ Am m.; Berb. v; Bry.; Card. m; Chel.
Inose ; Kah c.3 Merc.

Substernal — Apium_sgr.; Asclep. t.: Ars; .Aster.; Aur
Azadir ; Bry.; Card. m3; Caust.; Chel.; Con.; Diose.
Jugl.or.; Kal’ n.: Kal; Kreos ; Lact. v; Morph; Nit
ac.; Nit. sp. d; Osm., Phell.; Phos, ac.; Phos.; Pot.
Puls.; Ran b., Ran. se.; Rumex; Ruta; Samb.; Sang.,
Sang. n; Sep; Sil; Spig.; Sul.; Trill.

MODALITIES—AGGRAVATIONS: From ascending: -\15 ; Sep

From bending forward — Sul.

From breathing, coughing — Am. m; Arn.; Bry; Colch.:
Menthol; Nat. m.; Phos ; Ran. b.; Senega; Sep; Sil; Sut.

From cold drinks -  Thuya.

From cold weather - - P’ctrol

From damp weather -— Ran. b.; Rhus t.

From lying down, at night —- Cale c. Sep

From lying on affected side —Nux v, Phos, Starn

From lying on left side -— Phos.

From lying on right side -- hah 3 Merc

From motion — Arn; Ars.; Bry.; Cale. c.; Card m.; Jugl.

r; Kali c.; Mag. c.; Phos.; Ran. 3 Senega; Sep ; Spig.;
ul.
From pressure — Arn.; Ars.; Bry.; Colch.; Nux v.; Phos.;

‘an. 0b.

From spinal irritation — Agar.; Ran. d.

From talking Alum; Hep.; Srann.

From working --- Am. m.; Lyc.: Nat. n.; Sep.
AMELIORATIONS — From bending forward: Asclep. t.: Hyos.
From eructation — Bar. c.

From lying down — Psor.

From lying on affected side —— Bry.: Pul.

From motion — Ign.; Puls.

From rapid walking "~ Lob. infl.

From rest — Bry.

In open air — Anac.; Puls

Sensitiveness, tenderness, rawness of chest — Ant. t; Arn.;

Ars.; -Asclep. t; Bry. «3 Cale. c¢.; Cale ws Cal, ail.;

Carbo v.; Caust.; Cim.; Cures 3 fine. poe’. err. p; Ham.;

lod.: Kaolin; Merc.: Na h.; Nat. s.; Nut. ac.; i" jf. Os;

Phos.; Po ; Puls.; ; Kan. b.; Kan. se.; Rumer; Sang.;

Senega; weeks spon Stann.; Sul.

Spots on, Sep.
Spots on, yellow — Phes.

eakness, from least exertion, even talking --—- Alumen.-

Am. c.; Arg. m.; Cale. c.; Canth.; Ccorbo v.; Coce.: Dig.;
te Tod. Kali c; Lob. infl.; Phos. ac., Phos.; Psor.; Ran.

+ Rhus t., Ruta; Spong.; > Stonn.; Sul.

RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 987

COUGH — Remedies in general: -— Acal.; Acet. ac., Acon.
Ilium 5.; dlum., Ambra, Am. br.; Am. c.; Am. caust.

Am. m; Ant. ars; Ant. s. a; Ant. t.; Aral; Arn; Ars.

Ars. tod. ; Asclep. Az (Bals. per.; Bell; Bism., Brom.

Myrtis; ‘Vaya; Nat. m; Nit. "ac; Nux v.;° Op.: Osm
Phell., Phos. Pop. c, Puls; Khus t.; Rumer; Samb.
Sany., Santon., Sella, Senega; Stl.; Spong ; Stann. sod.
Stann, Stata, Sul, Trifol.; Tub.; Verbasc; liola od.
Wyeth.

CAUSE, OCCURRENCE, AGGRAVATION —- Abdomen, irrita-
tion from: Sep.

After anger in children — Anac., Ant. t

After anger, vexation, cleaning teeth — Staph.

After diarrhea -— Abrot.

After falling asleep, especially, in children, constant tickling
cough without waking -~ 4con , Agar;  fral., Cham,
Cycl; Lach.; Nit. ac.; Sul; Tub.; Verbasc See Evening.

After sleep -—— Brom.; Lach ; Spong.

Afternoon, in -—.im. m., Lys; Thuya

Air, hot - - Kali s.

Ascending - Am. cu

Bathing - -Nux m,

Catarrh — Caust ; Spec.; Kreos., Scilla, Sricta \

Catarrh, post-nasal, in children and adults — Llydr , Pop, c ;
Spig

Chest, feeling as if lump in- Abics n.

Cold air —-.fcon , Alum; Am. ¢.; Ars; Bar. ¢.;_ Brom.;
Cale sil; Carbo v, Cepa, Hep., Lach ; Mentha, Nit. ac.;
Phos ; Rhus t; Sciila; Senega; Spong.; Trifol

Cold air, to warm = Ant c.; Bry.; Ipec; Nat. ¢.; Scilla;

era

Condiments, vinegar, wine -- Alum

Dampness — Ant t; Cale. cc; Dul., Nat. s.; Nux m.

Daytime only -— Euphras., Ferr, Nat m.; Staan; Staph.;
Viola od 5

Drinking ~ Ars; Brv., Carbo v.; Dios.; Wyos.; Staph.; Lyc ;

NOs,

Drinking, cold -— Carbo v.; Hep., Merc.; Rhus ¢.; Scilla;
Sil.; Spong.; Ver. a.

Eating— Anac ; Ant ars.; Ant. t.; Bry.; Calc. c., Carbo v.;
Cinch.; Hyos.; Kah bick.; Lach.; Mez.; Myos.; Nux v.;
Phos.; Taxus; Zinc. m.

Eczema or itch suppressed — Psor.

Entering, warm room —Acon.; dnt. c; Anthem.; Bry.;
Caust >; Cham; Mere.; Nat. c.; Puls ; Ran. bs Ver. a.
Evening, night —-Acal.; Acon.; -im._br; Am. «; Ant. t;
Arn, Ars, Bell; Bry ; Calc. c; Caps: Carbo v ; Caust.;
Com, Gud, Coleh » Con., Dros, Eup. perf.; Hep.;
988 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

Hydroc. ac; Hyos, Kalt br.; Ign.; Laur.; Lyc.; 3. Mentha;
Meph., Merc, Nit. ac., Op.; Passifl.; l’hos.; Prun. v.;
Psor.; Puls, Rhus t.; Rumer; Samb. ; San .; Sanic ;
Santon.; Sep; Stl; Spong.; Stann.; Sticta; ul. s Tub.;
Verbasc.

Before midnight — Aral.; Bell.; Carbo v; Mag. m.; Phos.;
Samb.; Spong., Stann.

After midnight, early A. M.— Acon , Am. br.; Am c.; Ars,
Cupr. m.; Dros., Hep; Kah c., Nuvi, Phell.; Rhus t.

Constriction in larynx, trachea — Ign.

Excitement -— Ambra; Coral.; Ign; Spong.; Tar. bh. See
Nervous.

Expiration — Acon.; Caust., Nux v.

Heart disease — Arn.; Ilydroc. ac; Lach; Laur.; Lycop.,
Naya, Spong.

Influenza— Cepa; Eriod.; Hyos.i, Kalk bich., Kali s; Areos,
Pie hl; Sany.. Senega; Strych

Injuries — Arn.; Millef.

Inspiration —- Acct. ac.; Acon.; Bell.; Brom.; Bry.; Cina;
lod.; Jpec.; Kali _bich.; Lach ; Mentha; Nat. m. ; Phos.;
Rumex: Scalla.; Spong.; Sticta.

Intermittent, suppressed - - up. perf.

Lying down-— Ant. ars.; 4ral., Ars.; Bell.; Bry.; Caust.;
Cochlear.; Con.; Croc.; Drus.; Dule.; Hyos.; lgn.; Inula;
Lith c; Meph.; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Petrol; Phos.; Prun.
wv; Psor.; Puls.; Rumer; Sabad ; Sang.,; Sil., Sticta; Tub.;
Verbase

Lying on back = Am. m.; Ars; lod; Nur uv: Phos,

Lying on left side — Dros.; fhos.; Ptel ; Rumex; Stann.

‘Lying on right side —-Am. m.; Benz ac; Merc.

Lying with head low — Am m.; Spong.

Measles — Dros.; Dulc.; Eup _ perf.; Euphras Ipec.; Kali
bich ; Puls.; Sang.; Scilla; Stic ta. See Skin.

Menses, or piles, suppressed — Mallcf.

Mental exertion — Nux v.

Morning ~~ -Acal.; Allium s.; 4Jum., Ambra; Cale. c.; Cina;
Coccus, Hep.; Iod.; Kah bich.; Kali iod.; Kah n.;_ Lye;
Nat. m; Nt. ac.; ’Puls.; Rhus t.; Selen.; Sep.; Sticta;
Sal.; Tab.

Morning, early — Am. br.; Am. c., Ars.; Caust.; Cupr. m.;
Kabic; Nux tv, Phell.; Puls; Sul.

Morning, on waking — Alum.; ; Ambra; Bry.; Coccus; Kali
bich.; Psor.; Rhus t

Motion —— Ars.; Bell; Bry., Cina, Hep.; Iod.; Ipec.; Nux

Puls.; Senega; Spong.; Ver. a.

Odors strong: presence of strangers -- Phos.

Old people --- Ant. t.; Bar. c.; Bar. m.; Curlo v.; Hyos3
Kreos.; Myrt:s; Rhus t., Senega; Sil ; Sticta,

Operations for fistula, after -- Berb. v.; Calc. p.; Sil.

Periodic, recurring in spring, autumn — Cina.

Pertussis after; from least cold — Caust.; Sang. -

Physical, ¢xpaustion — Scilla; Siicta. -

Pregnant i -lpoc.; Bry.; Caust.; Con.; Kols br.; Nux m,
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 989

Reading, laughing, singing, talking — Alum ; Ambra, Anac ;
arg. m., Argon, Arum; Carbo v.; Caust ; Cim.: Collins.;
Con.; Dros; Heft; Hvos.. Iridium; Lach.; Mang. ac.;
Mentha; Nux v.; Phos., Rumex; Sil; Spong.; Stann.;
Su

Reflex -- Ambra; Api; Phos.

Sciatica in summer alternating — Staph.

Standing still during a walk --- Astac.; Ign.

Stomach, irritation, from -- Bim; Bry., Calad.; Cereum
Ox.3 Kali m.; Loh. tnfl.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Phos ;
Sang.; Sep.; Sul. Ver a.

Swallowing, from — Spong

Sweets —-Spong: Zinc. m.

Tickling, as from dust, feather --.\m, oc; Ais; Bell;
Cale, s Cups: Caust.; Carbo 7., Cina, Dros; Euphorb.
dath.; Jgn, Lac c., Lach; Lact. «., Nat. m.; Nux v.;
Paris; Phos, Rumer, Sep

Tickling, in chest (substernal, suprasternal fossa) -—
Ambra, Am bre: Ant. c.. Apis, Arn; Ars, Brom; Bry;
Cale. c.. Caps, Carbo v.; Cast. Cham.; Coccus; Con.,
Ferr. ac; Jygn., Jod.. Ipec.; Kali bich ; Kreus., Lach;
Mentha, Myrtis, Nuz 27., Osm.; Paris; Phos ac.; Phos.,
Puls.; Radium; Rhus t ; Rumer, Sang., Sep.; Sd.; Spong ;
Stann., Sul.; Ver a.

Tickling, in larynx - -Alum.; .frg m ; Bell.; Brom.; Calc. c.;
Caps.; Carvo v, Caust : Cepa, Cochlear. ; Coccus; Con.;
Crot.; Dres., Dule; Kryng.; Hep.; 1gn., Tod; Ipec.;
Kieos.: Lach, Menthol, Nit ac.; Phos., Puls. "Rumes.
Sang.; Sil, Spong.; Sui.

Tickling, in throat - Alum.; Amba: Am. br. Am_ c;
Aval., Arg n, Bell.; Cale. c, Caps.; Cham; Cim; Cina;
con., Deos., Hep: "He at.; Hyos., Ign.; lod., Kah co;
Lact. v.; Lob wf; Melt.; Menthol; Nux vi Phoe,
Rumex; Stann_ iod.; ‘Sul: Wycth

Tobacco smoke — Mentha; Merc ; ; Spong., Staph.

Tonsils, enlarged — Bar. c.; Lach.

Touch, pressure -— Lach.; Rumer.

Undressing, or uncovering body — Par. c.; Hep., Kah brch.;
Rhus t., Rumex

Uvula, relaxed — Hyos.; Kali c.; Mere. ir.

Warmth —- Ant. c., Bry, Caust.; Dros.; Dule.; Ipec.; Merc.;
Nat. c.; Nux m.; Puls ; Scilla.

Weeping --- Arn.

Winter— Aloe; 4nt os. a; Bry.; Cham; Ipec.; Kreos.;
Lippia; Psor. See Chromic Bronchitis

TYPE — Barking: Acon., Ambra; Bell.; Coral. ; Dros.: Hep.;
Jod.; Kali bich.; Phos.; Samb ; Sinap. n.; Spong.; Ver. a.
See Dry; Hoarse; Spasmodic,

Chronic (phthisical) —- dinum si; Ant. t.; Ars. iod.; Bar.
c; Bry.: Cale. iod.; Cale. an Cham ; Cod.; Crot.; Dros.
Dulc ; up. _perf.; Hyos. bydrobr.; Kreos.; Laur.; Lob.
infl.; Lye; Mang.; Merc.; Naja; Nit. ac.; Phell.; Phos.,
Psor.; Puls.; Rumeax; Sang.; Scilla; Sil.; " Spong.; Sticta;
Sul. See Tuberculosis.

Croupy -—- 4con,. Brom; Gels.; Hep.; Iod.; Kah bich; Nit.
ac.; Phos; Spong. See Croup
990 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

» hard, racking, hacking, short, tight, tickling -— Acai.
Dry, ars Alumen, Alum.; Am. br... Am. c. Ant. s. a
Ars.; Ars. iod.; Arum; Asclep. t; Aviare; Bell.; Brom.
Bry., Cale ¢; ‘Cale 10d.3 Canth , Caps.; Carb. ac.; Carb:
vi; Caust.; Ccpa Cham; ; Cim.; Cima; Cochlear.; Cod.
Coff.; Con., Coral, Dig ; Dros ;. Euphras.; Ferr. PS Gly.
cerin; Hep, Hydroc. ac.; Hvos ; Hyose. hydrobr.: Ign.
Iod.; Justiera; Kali bich ; Kah br.; Kali c., Kali m.; Kreos.
Lach.? Laur, Lob. infl.; Lye.; Lycop.; Lycopers.: Mang.
Mentha; Menthol; Merc ; Morph ; Nava, Nat. mi: Nit. ac.
Nurciv. Ol 3. as; Onosm., Op: Osm, Petrol: Phos.
Puls, Rhus t, Rumex: Salvia; Samb : Sang.: Sang. n.
Seula; Senega; Sep, Sil.; Spong., Stann; Sticta; Sul.
Sul, ac; Tela as; Tub; Vanad., Ver a, Tlerbasc.
Wyeth.

Explosive, noisy --- Caps., Dros.; Osm; Solan) lye: Strych
See Spasmodic.

Fatiguing, exhausting, irritating — -fcon ; Am. c: Ars.
Arum; Aviare: Bals per., Bell., Bry., Cale. ¢.: Caust.
Cham.; Cod.; Collins.: Con; Coral, Dros : Eucal.; Hep.
Hyos.; Hydroc ac: Iqn.; Yod: Ipec;: Kal br.: Kreos.
Lact. v.; Laur.: Job imf.; lye: Mentha; Menthol; Merc.
Myrtis: Naja: Nit. ac: Opi t hell ; Phos . Psor.; Rumex
as; Rumex; Sang. Scilla; Sencga; Seb.; Sil., Silph. ey:.
Sticta; Strych ; Tela ar. See Spasmodie.

Hoarse, hollow, deep, metallic -- 4con ; Ambra: Am_ phos.
Ant. t.: Apoce: Ars jiod: Arum; Bell.: Brom.; Bry.
Carbo v.; Caust., Cina; Dros.; Dule.; Euphorb.: Euphras.
Hep, Inn. Tod: Intd.; Kal btck.; Lippia: Lye ; Mang
Meph: Myrtis; Nit. ac.: FPaos ; Samb.,; Spong.; Stann.
Ver. a.; Verbasc Sce Spasmodic

Laryngeal, nervous— Ambra, Asar.; Bell; Brom.; Caps.
Carbo v.; Caust.; Cina; Coral., Cupr, Dros.; Gels.; ; Hep.
VWydioe ac. Hyvas., Ton., Tpee ; ; Kah br.: Kah m, Lach.
Mere: Nit. ac.; Nux ves Phos.: Puls.; Rumez; Santon.
Spong.: Sul.; Tar. h: Terebene; Ver. a.; Viola od.

Loose, rattling, gagging, choking, strangling —Am., br.; Am
mi Ant. s.; drt t; Ars; Asclep. t.; Bals. -er: Brom.
Cale. ac. Cale c. Chel, Cina, Coccus; Cupr. m.: Dros.
Dule , Kup. perf.; Hep ; Ipe..; Kali bich.; Kali c.; Kali m.
Kali s.;) Lyc.: Mere... Nat. s.: Nit. ac: Phos.; Puls.
Rhus t . Samb.. Sank . Scilla; Senec , Senega; Sep.; Sil.
Stenn.; Stucta; Sul; Ver.

Spasmodic, paroxysmal, nervous, violent, suffocative —
Acon; Agar: cimbra; Am. br.; Ant. ars.: Ant. t.: Aral.
virn.; Ars., A\sar.; Bell; Brom.. Brv.; Caps.; Carb. ac.
“prbo wv, Caust.; Cham. ; Chel.; Cina; Coceus; Cox

ral: Cupr. ac; Caprom.. Dros.; Dule ; Gels.; Glycerin

Lep.; ion yaroe ac.; Hyos.; tan. j lod.; Jpec.; Justice
Ka ; Kah ¢ : Kreos.; Luch,, Lact. <., ‘Laur... Leds Lye.
Mag. oe Meph.; Merc.; Naph.; Nat. m.; Nit. ec.; Nux m.
Nux <., Op.; Osm: Pertussin; Phos; Radium; Rumex
Samb ; Sang.; Santon.; Srilia; Sep. Sil, Spong., Stann.
Sueta, Sul.; Pritol; Ver. ay Piola nd

Succussive, in two paroxysms — Merc., Puls.

Succussive, in three paroxysms —- Stann.
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 991

Wheezing, asthmatic —- Ambros; Ant. t.; Ars.; Benz, ac:
Croce. ; Hep Tod ; Jpec., Kah bich.: Lob inf; Meph.;
Nit. ac. hodium; Samb; Sang.; Senega; Spong. See
Spasmodic

WHOOPING (pertussis) — Acon.; «lumen; Ambra; Ambros.;
Am. bro: Am. m.; Ant t.; Arn.; Bad.; Bell.; Bry.j Dov...
Caps.:_ Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Caust., Castanca, Cereur
ax; Chel; Cma; Cineh ; Cocaine; Coccus; Con.; Coral.
Coquel.; Cupriac.; Cupr om; Dros.; Dulec.; Eucal.; Ku
rhorb, dath.; Euphras ; Formal. ; Grind ; Hep.; Hydroc.
ac., Hyos., Ipec., Justicia; Kah bich., Kali br.; Kalt c.;
Kaho m: Kah p. Kah s: Led; rie infl.; Lob. m.; Mag.

t; Meph , Mere. 3; Naph, Nit. ac; Passifl.; Pertussin;
Phos.; 3 Pod ; Puls., Samb ; Sang n , Poe Sil; Solan. c.;
Sticta; Sul; Thymus; Tongo; Trifol.; er, a.; Viola od.

See Spasmodie.
Whooping, convulsions - /cll., Cina: Cupr. ac.; Cupr. m.;
Hydroc ac, Hyos., Mag. p.. Narcissus; yolan. C
Whooping, early stage (spasmodic) Avon: Bell, Carb.
ac.. Catho .v: Castanea, Chel; Cina, Enecus; Coral.;
Cupr ; Dros ; Hyos.; Ipec ; Mag. pe Meph.; Naph.; Nar-
cissus, Samb; Stann.; Thysnus.
Whooping, hemorrhage ~~ --.der., Cereum ox., Coral; Cupr.;
Dros., ind.: Ipec.; Mere
Whooping, later stages (catarrhal) - + Ant. t ; Cinch; Hep. ;
Ipec.; Puls.
Whooping, vomiting — Ant. t; Bell., Carbo v; | Cortadbios,
Coccus; Cupr. m., Dros., Ipec.. Lob infl.; Ver. a.
Whooping—Concomitants: Body stiff, rigid, cyanosis:
Am. ¢.: Ant. t.. Carbo v, Cina: Coral; Cupr. ac., Cupr.
m, Tod., Tpec.; Mag. p ; Meph.; Op.; Samb ; Ver. a,
Coryza — Alum; Iycj. Nat. c.
Crowing inspiration absent — Ambra.
Crying — Arn., Bry , Capfs., Samb
Diarrhea — Ant t.; Cupr ars, Fuphorb, dath.; Ipec ;
Rumex, Ver.
Dyspnea — Ninbra: Am c., Ant. ¢ > Bell: Rrom.; Carbo v.,
ina; Coral.; Cupr. m; Dros, Euphorb.; ; Hep, Hippoz.;
Tod.; Thec.; Kali bich.; Lob. infl.;| Meph. aph.; Op.,
Samb.; Senec.; Ver. a.; Viola od. "See espiration.
Epistaxis, bleedings - Arn.; Bell; Cereum ox.; Coral.; Cupr.
Dros.: Ind.; lod.; Tpec.,; Merc.
Spasm of giottis ~~ Cupr.3 .; Meph.; Mosch.
Sublingual ulcer —- Nit. ac
EXPECTORATION: TYPE — Acid: Carbo an: Nit ac.; Puls.
Albuminous, clear, white — 4rg. m.; <Ars.; Bry.; Coccus
Eucal.; Kali m; Scilla; Selen ; Sul. .
Bitter — Bry.; Cale. ¢: Cham.; Dros.; Kali n.; Nit. ae.
als,

Bloody, blood streaked - Acon.: Arg. «., den.; Ars.; Bell.
Bry.; Cale. c.; Can. «, Canth.; Cetrar.; Coral.; Crot.
Dig.; Dros.; Dule.; Elaps; Ferr. Ei Hep. Hyos.: lod.
Ipec.; Kali c.; Kali n.; Laur.; Led.; Merc c.; Merc.
Miilef.; Nit. ac.; Nitrum; Nux v.; ‘Op.; Phos.; Puls.
Rhus t.; Selen.; Sif.; Sul.; Trill.

Casts — Cale. ac.; Kali bich.

Daytime —- Ambra: Bry ; Calc. c.; Hyos.; Stann.
992 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

Easy, raising elrg om. Carbo v., Dule.; Kali s.; Mat s;
Puls.; Sella; Stann , Tub.

Fetid, offensive - \rs, Bor; Calc. c.; Caps.; Carbo v.;
Cop.;. Kuphras; Kah c.; Aah hypophos., Wyc.; Nit. ac.;

+ Phell., Phos ac, Pia lL, Psor ; Sang.; Sep.; Sih; Stann.;

Sul.

Globular, lumpy --- 4gar.; Arg. m; Am. m.; Ant. t.; Bad.;
Cale. c.; Cale. f.; Chel.; Kah c, Mang.; Nat. selen.;
Rhus t.; Sil.

Gray, greenish, mucus — Am. phos, Ant. s. a.: Ars.; Benz.
ac., Cale cj; Cale _iod.; Cale. p, Calend.; Can. s ; Carbo
wm) Cop, Dros.; Duley Ferr. ac.; Kah 1od., Kali m;
Kah + , Kaolin; Lyc., Nat. c.: Nat. s., Paris, Phos.; Psor ,
Puls Senega; Sep.; Silph.; Snong.; Stann.; Sul.; Thuya.

Herby taste — Bor.

Liver-colored — Graph ; Lyc.; Puls.; Sep; Stann.

Profuse —-- Alhum s.; Ammon., Am m,; Ant. ars; Ant. iod.;
Ant. t ; Arg. m.; Ars. iod.; Asclep. t; Bals. per.; Calc. c.,
Cale sil; Canth.; Carbo 7.; Ceanoth.; Chel; Cinch.;
Coceus, Cop.: Dros; Dule.; Eueal.; Grind; Hep.; Hepat ;
Hydr ; Ipec ; Kah bich.; Kah c; Kali 10d.; Kreos . Laur.;
Lye, Mere; Myos.; Myrt. ch.; Nat. ars.; Nat s.; Phell.;
Phos ac.; Piloc; Puls... Ruta: Sang.; Scilla, Senega,
Sep., Su, Silph; Stann ; Sul; Tereb; Trill.; Zing.

Purulent, muco-purulent - Ammon; Ant 10d; Ars. ind;

sclep t; Bac., Bale per., Cale. c.: Cale. p.; Cale. sil;
yQale. 5.3 Carbo «, Cinch., Cop; Dros.; KEucal.; Eryag.;
Hep.; Wepat.; Hydr., lod.; Kal bich ; Kali c.; Kali iod.;
Kah pf, Wah s.: Kreos.: Laur; Lye.; Merc.; Myos ;
Myrti. Myrt. ch.; Nat. c.; Nit. ac.; Phos. ac’ Phos.,
Pie i, Psor sy Puls., Raia, Sang. 2.5 Sang; Scilla; Sep.;
Sil; Solan ny Stann.: Sul; Tereb.; Yereb. scor.; Trill.

Rust-colored — Brvy., Ferr. p.; Phos, Rhus t; Sang.

Salty -- Ambra; .Ars.; Cale. c: Kali sod.; Lyc.; Mag. c.; Nat.
ec: Nat m; Phos. ac.; Phos; Psor.; Puls.; Scilla; Sep.;
Sil: Stann.

Scanty— Alum: Am. m.; Ant. t: .4rs.; Asclen t.;_ Brom;
Rry.; Caust., Kali c.; Kali hypophos ; Ign.; Lach.; Morph.;
Nit. ac.y Nut ov. Op; Phos., Rumex; Sang.; Scilla;
Spone.; Zinc m. See Viscid

Serous, frothy, watery- Acon.; Am c; Ant. ars.;_Ars.;
Bry.; Carbo v.: Croc: Ferr. p.; Grind.; Kali iod.; Lach.;
Merc ; Nat. m.; CEnanthe; Phos; Piloc.; Silph.; Tanac.

Slips back, or must be swallowed — Arn.; Caust.; | Con.;
lod.; Kah c., Lach.; Nua m.

Soapy — Caust. . .

Sour — Cale. c.; Iris; Lach; Nit. ac; Nux v.; Phos. ac.;
Phos.; Zane.

Sweetish — Hepat.; Phos.; oang. n.; Stann.; Sul.

Viscid, tenacious, difficult of raising - Allium s.; 0 dlum.,
Ammon : 4m. c.; 4mm Ant s.a.; Ant. t° Aral.; Ars.;
Asclep. t.; Bals, per; Bar oc: Bar. m.: Bell; Bov.;
Bry.; Cat. c; Can. s.; Canth.; Carbo v.; Caust.; Chel.;
Cinch.; Coccus; Cuvr, m.; Dule ; Eucal.; Grind.; Hydr.;
Tpec.; Kali bich.; Kali ¢; Kale hyfophos.; Kali m.; Lach.;
Laur.; Lyc.; Mang. ac.; Mere.; Morph ; Myrtis; Naph.;
Nat. s.; Nux v.; Osm ; Paris; Phos.; Quill.; Rumex; Sang ; -
Sang. n.; Scilla; Senega; Sep.; Si., Silph.; Sul.; Stann.
RESPIRATORY SYSIEM 993

EMPTY FEELING in chest — Phos. ac.; Stann,

Eructations — Ambra; Caps.

Faintness — Sep. .

Gaping, alternates with cough — Ant. t.

Grasps genitals — Zinc m.

Grasps throat — Acon.; Cepa; Jod., Lob. infil.

Gurgling, from throat to stomach — Cina.

Herpes facialis -— Arn. See Skin.

Hiccough — Tab.

Hoarseness — Ambia;) \m. c. Brom. Cale. cs Calend.;
Carbo v.: Caust, Dros.; Lup. perf.; Hep.; lod.; Lach.;
Meph ; Merc , Phos; Sil, Sporg ; Sul

Hyperestheeia of mucose = fell ; Con ; fyos., Lach , Phos ;

ume: Sticta

Lachrymation — Caps: (cpa, Cina, Euploas , Nai. m.; Sella.

Left breast, feels cold - Nat c

PAIN — Chest: Abics mn. Ars. Bell, Brom; Bry.; Caps.;
Carbo v; Caust, Chel: Cmeh; Cina, Commocl.; Dros ;
Dule ; laps. Eup perf.: Euphorb.: Ign.; Jod.; Justicia;
Kah bich, Aah c, Kah iod; Kah nj: Kreos., Lact. v.;
yc: Meph.; Merc. Myrtis; Nat. co; Nat. s, Ntecol.;
Nux vi; Phell ; Phos., Phyt , Rames, Senega, Sst, Spong ;
Stata, Sul.; Thasp.

Distant parts -— Agar, .Am. c.; Bell; Bry., Caps.; Caust.;
Chel , Lach.; Nat. m. Sencga.

Head aEth,; Anac.; Asclep. ti Bull; Bry, Carbo vey Eup.
perf.; kerr, mj; Formica; Lyc.. Nat. m, Nux vz Sep;

Sul.
Head, he piaces hands to it — Bry.; Caps.; Nat m.; Nat. s
Larynx -Acon; Ant. t., .Arg. im. Arum, Asclep. t. Rell;
Caust ; Cepa; Uep; Inula; Jod . Nit. ac; Phos., Rumex;

ong.

stohack, abdomen — Acclep t; Bry., Cale ¢.3 Nur v.;
Puls.; Sep.; Sil, Sut, Thuya,

Throat — Bell., Lach ; Merc, i. r.; Sul.

POLYURIA — Scilla.

Prostratier — Am... Ant t.; 4rs., Coral., Cupr. m.; Cur.;
Hep. lod.; Ipec., Meph.; Nit. ac.; Phos. ac.; Rumex;
"er. a.

Rawness, soreness of chest- -Amyg. am; Ant. s. a.; Ars.;
Bry.; Cale. ¢; Carbo v.; Caust.; Coral: Dig.; Eup.
ferf.; Ferr. p; Gels; Graph; Mag. m.; Meph.; Merc.;
Phos.; Rhus t.; Rumex: Selen., Senega; Stann.

Rubs face, with fists — Scilla

Sleepiness, between attacks — Fuphorb. dath. /

Snesing, at end-— Agar; Bell.; Cina; Dros.; Justicia; Scilla;
enega.

Spasms — Bell., Cina; Cupr. ac; Cupr. mj; Hydroc. ac.;
GEnanthe; Solan. c.

Tingling, in chest — Acon

Urine, involuntary, spurting — Alum.: Caps.; Caust.; Colch.;
Ferr.; Ferr, mur.; Ferr. p.; Nat. m.; Puls.; Rumex;
Scilla; Ver. a.; Verbasc ; Yerba; Zinc. m.

Vomiting — Alumen; Anac.; Ant. t.; Bry.; Carbo v,; Coccus;
Cupr. ac.; Cupr. ars.; Cur.; Dros.; Euphorb. dath.; Eu-
hras.; Ferr. m., Hep; Ipec.; Kak ¢.: Kreos.; Meph.;
lyos ; Nit. ac; Nuw v., s.; Puls; iy .; Si, Ver. a.

994 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

AMELIORATIONS — From drinking, cold things: Caust;
Cupr. m., Phos ; Tab.

From drinking, warm things -- Spong.

From eating — Anac; Bism ; Ferr ; Spong.

From eructations — Ambra; <Angust.; Sang

From lying down — Calc. p; Feri. m.; Mang. ac.; Sinap

From lying on right side — Ant. t

From lying on stomach ~~ Med.

Fram placing hands, on chest -- By, Caps; Cina; Dros.;
Eup. perf.; Lact. v.; Nat. s.

From resolute suppression of cough — Ign.

From resting, on hands and feet © up perf.

From resting, with hands on thighs — Niccol.

From sitting up -- By , Dros., Hep ; Hyos.; Nat. s.; Phell.;
Puls.; Sang.

From warming air by covering head with bedclothes - -
Hep.; Rhus t.; Rumer.

From warmth — Bad.

LARYNX — Anesthesia: = Kali br.

Burning — Am. caust: .Am om; Arg. m; Ars; Canth;
Mang ; Merc.: Mez.; Paris; Phos.; Rumex; Sang.; Spong.;
Zing. Sce Pain,

Cancer — Nit. ac.; Thuya

Coldness — Brom, Rhus t.; Sul

Constricted feeling --- Acon ; Bell , Brom.; Calad.: Chlorum.,
Cupr.; Dios.; Guaco; Hydroe ac; Tod., Mang. ac.;
Med.; Afosch.; Naya; Ox. ac; Phos.; Shong.; Still; Ver.
a. See Spasms.

Dryness --- Ars.; Rell.: Carbo v; Caust.: Dub. Hep.; Tod.:
Kali bich.; Kali wd, Teoma, Jung. Mez. + Phas ;
Pop. ¢: Sang.; Senega; Sponq. See inflavwmation

Edema of glottis = fps .frs., Bell, Chlorum; Kali tod.;
Tach ; Mere.; Puloe. , Sang ; } Stram.; Vipera

Epiglottis, affections -~ Cepa; Chlorum; Hepat.; Wyeth.

INFLAMMATION — LARYNGITIS — Acute, catarrhal: -4con.;
-Ese.; Ant. t.; Apis; “wg om; Ars_iod.: Arum; Bell.;
trom.; Bry; Canth. Carbo v.; Caust, Cepa; Cub.;
Dros.; Dale; Eup perf.; Fert pi: Hep.; Tod.; Ipec.;
Kal bich., Kali 1od ; Mere , Menthol; Osm.; Phos.: hus
t, Rumex, Samb; Sang.: Spong ; Stictas Sul.

Inflammation, atrophic -—.\m m; Kali bich.; Kali iod.;
T,ach.; Mang. ac.; Phos.; Sang.

Inflammation, chronic, catarrhal —- \m. br.; Ant. s a3
Ant t3 Arg. m.; Arg. n.; Bar, ¢; Bar. m.; Cale. c.;
Cale. jiod.; Carbo 1; Caust., Coccus; Cotyled Pros.
Hep.; Tod.; Trid.; Kali bich.; Kali ce; Kali tod.
Mang. ac.; Mere. c., Mere , Nat. m.; Nat. selon; Nir
Nus v.; Paris: Phos.: Puls. ; Rhus ‘t.; Sarg. n.; clon
Senega; Stann.: Still.; Sul; Thuya.

Inflammation, follicular — Arg. n.: Iod.; Kah iod.; Selen.;

BLA
laflam mation, membranous exudate — MEMBRANOUS
OUP — Acet. ac.; Acon.; Ammon. ; Am. caust, 5 Ant.
ti i Ars: AR iod. ; Bell, Brom.; Cale. iod.; Con. Tos. >
Hep.: Tod.: Kali bich.; Rali chior.: bal m3
Paty ni * Kaolin: Lach.; Merc. cy.; Merc.; Phos; Samb.;
Sano.: Spona. See Diohtheria (Throat).
994 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

AMELIORATIONS — From drinking, cold things: Caust;
Cupr. m., Phos ; Tab.

From drinking, warm things -- Spong.

From eating — Anac; Bism ; Ferr ; Spong.

From eructations — Ambra; <Angust.; Sang

From lying down — Calc. p; Feri. m.; Mang. ac.; Sinap

From lying on right side — Ant. t

From lying on stomach ~~ Med.

Fram placing hands, on chest -- By, Caps; Cina; Dros.;
Eup. perf.; Lact. v.; Nat. s.

From resolute suppression of cough — Ign.

From resting, on hands and feet © up perf.

From resting, with hands on thighs — Niccol.

From sitting up -- By , Dros., Hep ; Hyos.; Nat. s.; Phell.;
Puls.; Sang.

From warming air by covering head with bedclothes - -
Hep.; Rhus t.; Rumer.

From warmth — Bad.

LARYNX — Anesthesia: = Kali br.

Burning — Am. caust: .Am om; Arg. m; Ars; Canth;
Mang ; Merc.: Mez.; Paris; Phos.; Rumex; Sang.; Spong.;
Zing. Sce Pain,

Cancer — Nit. ac.; Thuya

Coldness — Brom, Rhus t.; Sul

Constricted feeling --- Acon ; Bell , Brom.; Calad.: Chlorum.,
Cupr.; Dios.; Guaco; Hydroe ac; Tod., Mang. ac.;
Med.; Afosch.; Naya; Ox. ac; Phos.; Shong.; Still; Ver.
a. See Spasms.

Dryness --- Ars.; Rell.: Carbo v; Caust.: Dub. Hep.; Tod.:
Kali bich.; Kali wd, Teoma, Jung. Mez. + Phas ;
Pop. ¢: Sang.; Senega; Sponq. See inflavwmation

Edema of glottis = fps .frs., Bell, Chlorum; Kali tod.;
Tach ; Mere.; Puloe. , Sang ; } Stram.; Vipera

Epiglottis, affections -~ Cepa; Chlorum; Hepat.; Wyeth.

INFLAMMATION — LARYNGITIS — Acute, catarrhal: -4con.;
-Ese.; Ant. t.; Apis; “wg om; Ars_iod.: Arum; Bell.;
trom.; Bry; Canth. Carbo v.; Caust, Cepa; Cub.;
Dros.; Dale; Eup perf.; Fert pi: Hep.; Tod.; Ipec.;
Kal bich., Kali 1od ; Mere , Menthol; Osm.; Phos.: hus
t, Rumex, Samb; Sang.: Spong ; Stictas Sul.

Inflammation, atrophic -—.\m m; Kali bich.; Kali iod.;
T,ach.; Mang. ac.; Phos.; Sang.

Inflammation, chronic, catarrhal —- \m. br.; Ant. s a3
Ant t3 Arg. m.; Arg. n.; Bar, ¢; Bar. m.; Cale. c.;
Cale. jiod.; Carbo 1; Caust., Coccus; Cotyled Pros.
Hep.; Tod.; Trid.; Kali bich.; Kali ce; Kali tod.
Mang. ac.; Mere. c., Mere , Nat. m.; Nat. selon; Nir
Nus v.; Paris: Phos.: Puls. ; Rhus ‘t.; Sarg. n.; clon
Senega; Stann.: Still.; Sul; Thuya.

Inflammation, follicular — Arg. n.: Iod.; Kah iod.; Selen.;

BLA
laflam mation, membranous exudate — MEMBRANOUS
OUP — Acet. ac.; Acon.; Ammon. ; Am. caust, 5 Ant.
ti i Ars: AR iod. ; Bell, Brom.; Cale. iod.; Con. Tos. >
Hep.: Tod.: Kali bich.; Rali chior.: bal m3
Paty ni * Kaolin: Lach.; Merc. cy.; Merc.; Phos; Samb.;
Sano.: Spona. See Diohtheria (Throat).
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 995

Inflammation — SPASMODIC CROUP — Acon.; Ant. t.; Ats.;

ell.; Benzoin; Brom., Bry., Calc. fl., Calc. 10d , Chlorum,

Cupr., Euphorb.; Ferr, py Hep; Ign.; fud., Ipec, Aah

bich ; Kali br.; Aah on.; Kaohn; Lach.; Meph.; Mere, i. fi;

Mosch.; Naja; Petrol ; Phos., Poth ; Samb.; Sang.; Spong.;
er. U.

Inflammation, syphilitic, associated with, secondary symp-
toms — Merc. c.; Merc. s.; Nit. ac.

Inflammation, syphilitic, associated with, tertiary symp-
toms-~ Aur., Cinnab, lod; Aalt bich.; Kali tod.; Lach;
Merc. ¢.; Mere. i. fl.; Merc. i. r.; Mez.; Nit. ac.; Sang.;
Thuya. See Syphilis (Male Sexual System).

Inflammation, syphilitic, hereditary — Alur.; Fluor ac;
Hep.; Krevs.; Merce. 1. fl., Merc. 1. r., Mere; Net ac.,
Phyt.; Su).; Thuya.

Inflammation, tuberculous — Arg. .; Ars.; irs. iod.; Atrop.;
Bapt.; Brom.; Cale. c., Cale. p.; Canth ; Carbo v.; Caust.,
Chrom. oxy., Cistus. Dros., Ferr. p.; Hep.; Jod.; Ipec.;
Jabor.; Kah c, Kali m, Kreos; Lyc.; Mang. ac., erc.
mit., Naja; Mar. selen., Nit. ac., Phos., Selen.; Spong.,
Srann., Sul.

Irritation —- Arg. m., Bar. c.; Caust.; Chlorum; Hep.; Kali
bich , Kah iod.; Kali perm.; Lach., Mang. ac.; Nux v.;
Phos. See Rawness.

Motion, up and down, violent — Sul. ac.

Mucus -- Ant ¢; Arg. m.; Arg. n.; Brom., Bry.; Canth.;
Dros; (ep... Aah bich.; Kah e¢.; Lach; Mang. e@c.; Ox.
ac.; Pars; Phos.; Rumex, Samb.; Sang.; Selen.,; Senega:
Stann. See Inflammation.

Pams — Alum.; Arg. n., Arum; Beill.; Bry.; Cepa; Hep.;
dod ; Justicia; Kreos.; Lach., Alang. uc., Med., Mere. ¢.;
Nit. ac.; Osm.; Phos.; Sang., Spong. See Inflammation.

Poiypus — Beib. v.; Psoi.; Sang.; Sang. 1. ; Tewcr.; Thaya.

Rawness, roughness, soreness, sensitiveness— Acon.; Alum ;
Am. caust.; drg. m., Arn.; drum; Bar. c.; Bell.; Bernzom;
Liy.; Caust.; Cham; Cistus; Eup. perf. Hep.; lod.; Kali
bich ; Aah tod., Kali perm; Kaohn; Lach, Lyc.; Mag.
p, Many. ac., Med 3 erc., Nux v.; Osm.; Phos. ac.;
fthos., Puls; Rhus t., Kummer, Sang , Spong., Sel., Zinc

m.

Spasm (laryngismus stridulus) -- 4con.; Agar.; Am. caust.;

PeArum; Belt; Brom; Cale. c.; Cale. p.; Chel. ; Chlorum;
Chloral: Cic.; Cinch.; Coral, Cupr.ac.; Cupr. m.; Kormai.,
Gels.; Granat.; lgn.; lod.; ipec , Kah br.; Lach.; Meph.;
Mosch.; Phos.; Samb.; Spong.; Stram.; Sirych.; Vespa;
Zinc, m.

Suffocative catarrh — Ambra; Ars.; Cale. c.; Coff.; Sang.;

pong.

Tickling — Alum.: Ambra, Ant. s. a.; Bell.; Cale. ¢.; Caps;
Carbo v.; Cepa: Caccens; Ceop.; Dros.; Dute ; Jod.; Kals
bich.; Phos. Sce Cough.

Tumors, benign — Caust.; Kali bich.; Sang.; Thuya,

Tumors, malignant —-Ars.; Ars. iod.; Bell.; Clem.; Con;
Hydr.; lod.; Kreos.; Lach.; Morph.; PAyt.; Sang.; Thuya.

Vocal cords, ulceration — Lyc
996 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

Vocal cords, weak — Carbo wv.; Caust.; Coca; Graph; Pen-
thor., Phos. See Voice.

VOICE — Deep, bass: Brom ; Camph.; Carbo v.; Caust.; Dros.;
Phos.; Pop. c.; Sang. n.; Stann.; Sul.; Verbasc.

High, piping — Beil.

Hoarse, aphonia — 4con.; Alumen; Alum; Amy c.; Am.
caust, Am. m, Ant._c.; Antipyr.; Arg iod.; Arg. m.;
ang on., Arn.; Ars. iod.; -lrwn, Asclep. t.; Bar. c.; Bell.
Benzoin; Brom., Bry.; Cak. ¢; Cale caust.; Camph.
Carbo v.; Caust.; Cham.; Chlorum, Cina; Coca, Cochlear.
Coccus; Cub; Dros., Dub.; Dule.; Eup. perf.; Ferr. p
Gels.; Graph; Hep., Myos.; Ign.; Iod.; Zpec.; Justicia
Kah bich.; Kah c; Kali chiom.; Kreos.; Mag. p.; Mang.
ac., Mere ; Nit. ac.; Nux m; Nux v.; Op.; Osm.; Ox. ac.
Pans; Penthor ; Petrol; Phos.; Plat.; Pop. c.;_ Puls.
Rhus t ; Rumex, Samb, Sang.; Sang. n; Selen.; Senega
Sep.; Sil., Spong.; Stann; Sticta; Still; Sui; Thuya

er. v.; Verbasc., Viola od.

Hoarseness, capricious -— Hep.; Puls.

Hoarseness, chronic — Ampclop ; Arg. n_; Bar. c.; Calc. c.;
Carbo v , Caust, Graph; Mang. ac., Phos ; Sul.

Hoarseness, croupy — Acon.; Ail.; Caust.; Cepa; Hep.; Kah
83 Spong.

Hoarseness, from cold weather - Carbo v.; Caust ; Rumex;

wal,

Hoarseness, from overheating — Ant. c.; Ant. t.; Brom

Hoarseness, from overusing voice -— Alum.; Arg. m.; Arg.
n., Arn.; drum, Carbo v; Caust, Coca; Ferr. p.; Ferr.
picr; Hef.; lod.; Mang ac.; Med.; Mere. cy.; Kier Sei
prtoe.§ Rhus t.; Selen ; Spong ; Still., Sul; Tab.; Tere-
ene.

Hoarseness, hysterical Gels,, Iqn.; Nux m., Plat.

Hoarseness, painless — Bell.; (ale. c.. Carbo v.: Paris.

Hoarseness, paretic — Am. caust.; Bell.; Caust.; Gels.; Lach ;
Ox. ac.; Phos.; Rumex; Sil.

Hoarseness, relieved temporarily by coughing or expectora-
tion — Stann.

Hoarseness, worse, at end of cold — Ipec

Hoarseness, worse, in A. M. —- drum; Benz ac; Cale. cj
Caust., Kup. perf; epi: Mung., Nit ac. Amin, Sul

Hoarseness, worse, in P. M. -- Garbo 7; Kali bich.; Phos.;
Rumex.

Hoarseness, worse, in damp weather —- Carbo v.

Hoarseness, worse talking, singing, swallowing — Spong

Hoarseness, worse, walking against wind — Acon.; .\rum;
Euphras , Hep.; Nux m.

Hoarseness, worse when crying —.\cou.:  Jell.; Phos:
Spong.. .

Menstrual — Gels.

Nervous aphonia with cardiac disorder Cina, Wyiioc ac;

ac.

Fingers, varies continually — Ant. c.; -\rg. m; drum; Bell.;

. tbo v.; Caust.; Lach.: Rumex.

Voice producer, instantaneous — Coca; Ferr. p , Pop. ¢

Whispering, weak voice -.\rg om; Camph; Canth,; Carbo
v.; Canst.; Dub.; Phos Pop. c.: Primula; Puls.; Ver. a.

RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 997

LUNGS — Abscess: .\con.; {rs wd., Bell.; Caps.; Chin. ars.;
Cinch, Hep., lod.; Kali ci Mere , Stl.

Congestion —Acon., Adren.; Ais. 10d.; Bell; Bothrops;
Cact., Conv.; Ferr, fe Tod.: Kali n., “Lye.; 3 Nux v.; Op.;
Phos.; Stroph ; Sulphon. ; ; Upas; Ver. v. See Inflamma-
tion.

Congestion, passive — Carbo v ; Dig.; Ferr. m.; Hydroe. ac.;

ux v.; Phos.; Sul.

Dilation of cells (emphysema) —.{m. ¢; Ant. ars.; Ant.
t; Ars.; Aur. mur., Bell; Bry.; Cale ¢ 3 Cale. p, Carbo
v; Chin ars.; Cinch : Dig : Dros ; Eucal.; Glon.; ‘Grind.
Hep.; Ipec.; Kah c; Lob. inf, Lye.; "Myrtis; hl
Nux v.; Phell.; Phos, Puls.; Sep; Spong.; ress N aR
See Asthina

Distended feeling -- Teich

Edema — 4m. c. .tnt t., .fpis; sire; Cochlear.; Kali c.;
Kah tod; Lach, Phos., Piloc; Pulm v.; Sang., Senec.;
Suoph , Tub

Gangrene -- Ain; rs. Caps; Carbo an.s Carbo v.; Crot.;
Eucal ; Dule.; Hep.; Kreos.; Lach ; Lye: See.; Sal.

HAEMORRHAGE (hemoptysis)  -dcal., Acet. uc; Achillea;
Acon, Allium os, earn. Cact., Carbo v3 Chin, ars.;
Cinch » Cinnam ; Dig i : Erecht . Ergot: Erig.; Ferr. ac.;
Ferr, m. Fer, Pp, Gelat, Geran ; Ham. Helix t > Hydrast.
mur, [pec ; Kah c¢.; Kreos., Lamina; Led.; Mangif. ind.;
Melt, Milles. Nar. nit; Phos., Rhus t; Sang.; Stroph ;
Sul ae Tereb., Urillhs en ov.

Hemorrhage, bright, red, blood - Acal > wlcon.; — Aran.;
Cact.; Verr. ace; Ferr », Geran.: Led.; Millef , Nit. ac;
Rhus t.

Hemorrhage, dark, clotted blood - Arn;  Crot.; Flaps,
Ferr mur., fam., Sul. ac.

Hemorrhage, during menopause - Lach.

Hemorrhage, hemorrhoidal — Nux v.

Hemorrhage, in drunkards — Hyos.; Led.; Nux vi; Of

Hemorrhage, in periodical attacks - - Kieus

Haemorrhage, in puerperal fevers — Jam.

Hemorrhage, traumatic - Millef. ;

Hemorrhage, tubercular --Acal; Ferr. p., Millef ; Nux v.

Hemorrhage, vicarious --~ Bry.

Hemorrhage, with cough -- 4dcon.; Acal; Ferr ac., Kerr.
p; Ipec.; Led , Phos. See Cough.

Hemorrhage, without cough, or effort -~ con ; Ham.;
Millef.; Sul. ac.

Hemorrhage, with valvular disease -— Cact.; Lycop.

Hot feeling — Acon. See Congestion.

Inflammation — BRONCHO-PNEUMONIA — dcon.; Am. 10d.;
Ant. ars; Ant. t.; Ars.; Ars. tod.; Bell; Bry.; Cheil.;
Ferr. pj Glycerin led.; Jpec.; Kali c.; Koch's lymph:
Phos, Puls.; Scilla: Solania; Tub.

Inflamination -—- CROUPOUS PNEUMONIA- Acon.; Agar.;
Am. iod.; Ant. ars.; Ant. 10d.; Ant. 8. a3 Amt. t.; Apo-
morph.; Arn.; Ars; Bell.; Brom.; Bry.; Caffeine; Camps. §

Carb. ac.; Carbo v., Chel; Cinch.; 3 Ferr. Gels.;
Hep: fod.; Ipec; Kali bich.; Kali cy Kali iod.; Lach.;
Lv, Men , Millef, Nat. 53 Nit. ac.; Op., x ac.;

998 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

Phos.: Puromococein; Pneumotoxin; Pyr.; Ran b.; Rhus
be Sang.; Scilla; Senega; Strych.; Sul; Tub.; Ver. a5
er, vu.

Stages of pneumonia — Congestive: Acon.; Esc; Bell.;

ry.; Ferr. p., lod.; Sang.; Ver. v.

Consolidation Ant i; Bry , Jod., Kali iod; Kali m;
Phos.; Sang, Sul

Resolution — .11/. t., Ant. s. a.; Azs.; Ars. 10d.; Carbo v.;
Hep.; lod; Kah tod, Kah s.; Lyc., Phos.; Sang.; Sil.;
Stann. iod.; Sul.

Type — Bilious --Ant ty Chel; Tept.; Merc., Phos, Pod

Latent — Chel.; Phos.; Sul

Neglected, lingering, cases — Ant s a; Ant. t, Ars. iod.;
Rry., Carbo «w., Cinch.; Hep.; Kali iod.; Lach.; Lye.;
Phos.; Plumo.; Sul.

Secondary — Ant ars.; .4nt. t.; Ferr, p.; Phos

Senile -~ Ant. ars.; Ant. t.; Digs ; Ferr. p.

Typhoid —Jiyos , Jach.; Laur; Merce. cy; Op., Phos.;
Rhus t., Sang.; Sul.

PARALYSIS of lungs — Am. c.; dnt. ars.; Ant. t., Ain; Bac ;
Carbo v; Cur; Diphther otox 5 ; Dule.; Grind., Hydroc. ac.;
Lach.; Laur.; Lob. purp.; Lyc.; Mere. cy.; Morph.; Mosch.;
Phos.; Solanza.

Tired feeling — Ail ; Arum,

TUBERCULOSIS (phthisis pulmonalis) - Acal.; Acon.; Aga-
ricin; Allsum s.,; Ant. ars.; Ant. fod., Ars.; Ars. 10d.;
Aur. ars.; Atrop; Aviare; Bac.; Dals r.; Bapt.; Bell.;
Blatta or.; Bry., Cale. are; Cake. c.; Cale, chlor.; Calc.
hypophos. ,_ val. wd, Cal p., Calop., Can. s.; Cetrar,;
Chin. ars.; Cim.; Coccus; Cod.; Crot., Cupr. ars.; Dros.;
Dule , Eriod.; Ferr, ac.; Ferr. "ars., Ferr sod.; Ferr. m.;
Ferr, p., Form. ac; koimica; Gall, ac.; Guasacol; Guaiac;
Ham ; ep , Hehx; Happoz.; Hydr.; Hyose, hydrobr.;
Hysterion; Ichth.; lod., lodof.; Jpec.; Kalag.; Kah bich.;
Kati ¢., Kali n., Areos.; Lach., Lachnanth,, Lact. ac.;
Laur.; Lecith., ‘Lye; Mang, ac.; Med.; M Mitlet.; Myos.;
Myrti; Naph; Nat. cacodsl; Nat. selen., Nat. s.; Net.
ac.; Nux v.3 Ox. ac; Pheil.; Phos. ac.; Phos., Piloc.;
Pineal gland ext.; Lolygon. av.; Puls.; Rumex; Ruta;
Salvia; Sang, Sep.; Sil, Silph. cyr.; Spong.; Stann.;
Stann. aod., Sticta; Succin.; Sud., Teucr. scor.; Thea;
Ther.; T'ub., Urea; Vanad.; Yerba,

Acute (phthisis florida) -- ‘Ant. t.; Ars.; Cale. oc.3 Cale.
jod.; Ferr. ac; Ferr. m.; Ferr. mur.; lod., Phos.; Pailoc.
mur.; Sanxg.; Ther ; Tub.

Cough — AMhum s.. Ars.; 4s. 10od.; Aviare; RBapt.; Bell.;
Cale. c.; Caust.; “Cineh.; Cod; Con.; 3 Coral; Ciut.; Dres.:

. , Ferr. ac; Hep., Hyos., Ipec.; Aal c., Lach; Laur. ; Lob.

“tn intl; Myos.; Nit. ac; Phos.; Rumex; Sang.; Sil; Silph.
cyi.; Spong.; Stenn.,; Sticta.

lity — Acal; Ars.; Ars. iod., Aviate; Chin. ars.; Phos.;
* Sil, See Nervous System,
DB

heea — Acet ac.; Arg. n.¢ Arn.; Ars.; Ars iod.; Calc.
c.3 Cuch., Coto, lod; Jodof.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Sil. See
Abdomen.”
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 999

Digestive disorders -- .\rs.; Aviare; Cale ¢.; Carbo v.3; Cupr.
ars., Feit ac; Ferr. ars; Gall. ac.; Avdr., Kreos; Nuw
ie: Strych See Stomach.

Dyspneea - - Carbo v.; Ipec.:; Phos

Emaciation Mum s.: Ais: drs tod.; Cale. p.; Eriod.;

i lod.; Myos.; Phos.; Sil; Silph, cyr.; Tub See Gener-

alities.

Fever — Acon.; \llum «,.; Ars, .\rs iod.; Bapt.; Cale. iod.;
Chin. ars., Chin, 9.; Cinch; Ferr. p.; lod.; Lye.; Nit.
ac; Phos.; Sang.; Sil; Stain.

Fibroid — Bry.; Cale c.; Sang; Sul

Hemoptysis --.fcal, Achillea, .tcon , Cale. ars.; Ferr. ac.;
Feir. mi: Fer, p., Ham.; Ipec., Millef.; Nit. ac; Phos.;
Prloc. mur., Trill See Hemoptysis

Incipient — Acal.; Agar.; Ars. tod.; Cale. ¢, Cale. iod.;
Cale. py Dros; Ferr, p.; lod; Kali c.; Kali 10d.; Lach-
nanth.; Mang. ac; Med.; Myrtss; Phos ; Polygon.; Puls.;
Sang.; Sec... Succin ; Sul.; Tub., Vanaad.

Insomnia —- \lhum 5», Caff., Dig.; Si See Nervous Sys-
tem

Liver disturbance - - Chel

Mechanical injury, after— Villef ; Ruta.

Night sweats— slcet_ ac.; Agaricin: Ars.; Ars. iod.; Atrop.;
Cinch., Eriod.; Gall. ac.; Hep.: Jabor.; Kali iod.; Lye.;
Mvos., Phos ac; Phos.; Piloc.; Piloc. mur.; Salvia;
Samb.; Sec; Sil, Silph cyr., Stann.; Yerba. See Fever

Pains in chest -— Acon.: Bry ; Cale. ¢.; Cim.; Guaiac.; Keli
«©, Myrts; Phos.; Pix lg. See Chest.

Sore mouth — J.ach. .

PLEURA —EMPYEMA: Arn; -4rs.; Cale c; Cale. s ; Cinch;
Echin.; Ferr. m; Hef.; Ipec., Kali ¢; Merc; Nat. 6.3
Phos ; Sil.

Hydrothorax -—-.fdon. <., Ant. t.; Apis; Apoc.; Ars.; Ars.
wd.; Canth ; Carbo v ; Cyich.; Colech ; Dig.; Fluor. ac.;
Helleb ; Jod.; Kats c., Walt iod.; Lagt. v.; Lye; Merc.
sul.; Phaseol.; Phos., Piloc , Ran. b.; Scilla; Senega; Sul.

PLEURISY — Abrot.; -{con.; Ant. ars.; Ant. t.; Apis Arn.;
ars., Asclep, t; Bell; Bor.; Bry.; Canth.; rho an.;
Cinch.; Dig.; Eriod.;) Ferr. mur.; Ferr. p.; Formica;
Guaiac., Vep.; lod.; Kolt c., Kali iod.; Led.; Lob, card.;
Merc.; Nat. s.; Op.; Phos.; Ran. b.; Rhus t.; Sabad.;
Sceiila, Senega; Sep.; Sil; Spig.; Sul; Tub.

Adhesions — \brot.; Hep; Ran. b.; Sul.

Chronic — .\rs. iod., Hep., lod.; Kali iod.: Scilla; Sui.

Diaphragmatic — Acon.; Ary., Cact ; Cupr.; Mosch.; Aan. 6.

Rheumatic — Acon.; Arn.; Bry.; Colch.; Rhod.; Rhus t.

Tuberculous — Ars. iod ; Bry.; Hep.; Jod.; lodof ; Kali ¢ —

With Bright’s disease—.\rs.; Merc. c. See Urimary Sys-
tem.

RESPIRATION — Arrested (apriea): Ars; Bov.; Camph.;
Hydroc ac.; Latrod ; Lyssin; Upas. .
Arrested, on falling asleep — 4m. c.; Dig.; Grind.; Lach.;
Lac $3 Mere pr rub Op.; Sams. Atrop Bell. Carbo
Cheyne-Stokes — con. fer.; pyr.3 5 +3
"a, Cocaine: Grind.;, Kati cy.3: Morph; Op.; Parth.;
‘part. $.
1000 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

DYSPNCGEA (difficult, embarrassed, oppressed, anxious) —-
Acet. ac.; Acon. fer.,. Acon ; Adren.; Am. c.; Amyl; Ant.
ars.; Ant. iod; int. t., Apis; Apoc.; Aral.; Ars.; Ars.
iod.; Aur.; Hac, Bell.; Blatta or.; Brom.; Bry.; Cact.;
Cayup.; Cale ars, Cale. ¢., Canth.; Caps; Carbo v;
Caust.: Cepa, Cham.; Chel.; Chlorum; Cinch ; Coca; Col-
lins ;) Cont, (rat, Cupr. ac, Cupr. m.; Cur.; Dig.;
Diose; Dros, Ferr, m., Feir. p.; Fluor. ac.;  Formal.;
Glon; Grind, Hep., Hydroc ac.; Ign.; lod.; Ipec.;
Justiaa, Aal buh, Kali os Kalt n., Lach ; Laur.; Loo
mfl, Lvs Mere cj; Mere. sul. Mosch ; Naph., Nat
ars. Nat s. Nur ve, Op; Phos, Phyt; Pothos; Puls ,
Pulmo vs; Quebracho, Ran. b, Ruta, Samb.; Sang.,
Sclla, Sence; Seneaga, Serum ang.; Sil; Spig., Spong.;
Stann., Stroph, Suiyveh, Sul; Tab, Ver. aj; Ver. v.;
Viola od , Zutc. m. See Asthma

Dyspnea, aggravated at P. M. — Act. spic.; Ars; Aur,
Cahinca, Cale cj; Carbo v; Dig.; Phos.; Puls.; Samo.,
Sep; Sul, Trifol.

Dyspnoea, aggravated from ascending stairs - Am. c.; Ars.;
Ror.; Cale ¢ 3; Lob infl; Nat. m.: Sep.

Dyspnea, aggravated from exposure to cold air -—- Act. spic.

Dyspnea, aggravated from foreign bodies — Ant. t ; Si

Dyspnea, aggravated from lying down -- Act. spic.; Aral ;

Ss; ge ghinea; Dig.; Grind; Lach.; Puls.; Sep; Strych.
ars.; Sul.

Dyspnea, aggravated from Jying on left side — Naja; Spig.;
Tab ; Viscum.

Dyspnea, aggravated trom lying on right side — Viscum

Dyspnea, aggravated from lying with head low — Cinch.;
Nitrum; Spong.

Dyspnea, aggravated from myocardial disease  Sarcol. ac.

Dyspneea, aggravated from nervous causes — Ambra; Arg
n.; Ars.; Asaf.; Cajup.; Mosch., Nux m.; Puls.; Val ;
Viola od.

Dyspnea, aggravated from rest — Sil.

Dyspneea, oggravated from sitting up -— Carbo v.; Laur.;

Sor,

Dyspneea, aggravated from sleep — Dig.; Lach.; Samb.;

pong.

Dyspnea, aggravated from sleep; sitting indoors; re-
Heved by rapid motion -— Sep.

Dyspnea, aggravated from stooping — Calc. c.; Sil

Dyspnea, aggravated from walking — Acon.; Am. c.;

Dysinen v.; Con; Thee i Kali coy Nat m3 Sep.; Sil. '
spneea, aggravated from wor! —Am, mj; aic. C5;
Lyc.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Sep.; Su; Sumb.

Dyspnea, aggravated in aged, alcoholics, athletics —

‘oca,

Dyspnea, aggravated in children — I yc : Samb.
> pneea, aggravated in lower cheat— Lob. syph.; Nux v.
spnea, aggravated in morning — Ant. t.; Con.; Kali
bich.; Kali ¢; Nat. s.
Dyspnea, aggravated in warm room — Am. c.; Puls, —
Wiapnea, relieved from bending forward — Ars.; Kali_c.
. P oe relieved from bending shoulders backwards —
ale. c.
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 1001

Dyspneea, relieved from eructating — Ambra, Ant. t.

Dyspnea relieved from expectoration -—.1nt ¢.,  Ars.;
Kah bich., Zine m.

Dyspneea, relieved from fanning -- Carbo v.; Lach.

Dyspnea relieved from lying down — Kali hich,

Dyspnea, relieved from lying on right side —- Ant. t

Dyspnea, relieved from lying on right side, head high —

Cact ; Spong.

Dyspnea, relieved from motion -—- Lob. infil.

Dyspnea, relieved from sitting up — Acon, fer.; Ant t.;
Ars, Wnag.; Laur; Mere. sul.; Nat. s.; Samb., Sul.;

Dyspnoea, relieved in open ait -— Calc. c, Tvach., Sud.
Gasping — Brom; Hlydroc. ac.; ipec.; Phos.; Samb.
Hoarse, hissing — .\cct. ac.

Inspiration difficult — Brom.; Cact.; Chel; Tod; Nicot.;
Ox. ac. See Dyspneea.

Inspiration free, expiration impeded - Cihivrum, Med;

eph ; Samb.

Irregular — Ail ; Ant ¢t.; Beil; Ciat; Dig., Melleb., Hippoz.;
Hydroc. ac., Op, Trill

Rapid, short, superficial —--.fcon fer.; Acon; Am. c.3 Ant.
t., Apu; Apoce, Aral: .tys.. Bell; Bry, Cale co: Carbo
vo Cupr. ac, Cupr; Cur, Ferr. p. Wippoz.; Kali bich.;
Lach; Lob purp.. Lye; Mag. p.; Mere. cy., Mere subg
Nat. s3 Nur a: Ox ac., Phos ac; Phos., Prun. sp.,
senega, Sil., Sfony, Stann; Sul. ac.

Rattling -— Allium s, .dounun ; Am, c., Am. caust.; Am m.;
Ant ars; Ant. t, Bals. per; Bar c.; Bar. m; Brom;
Cale. ac, Cale. ¢.; Can s.; Carbo v; Cham.; Chel.;
Chlorum, Ciah. Cupr. m; Dule; Ferr. p; Grind.;
Hep., Ipec.; Kah hich; Kah c.; Kaliim, Kah n.; Kals
s., Lye; Meph; Nat. s; Cinanthe; Op., Phos.; Pix 1;
Pals,, Scilla, Senega, Sil, Stann ; Sui, Ver. a.

Sawing — Brom, lod.; Samb; Spong,

Sighing -— Ail.; Apoc; Cact; Cale. p.; Carb. ac; Cereus
bon.; Dig; Gels.; Granat; Helleb; Ign, Lach.; Led;
Naph.; Nat. p; Op., Phaseol.; Piloc ; Samb; Sec.; Sul-
phon.

Slow, deep --Am. c; Aur; Benz. din.; Cact.; Can. ind.;
Cinch ; Dig: Gadus; Gels.; Helleb,, Hydroc. ac.; Laur.;
Lob. purp.; Op., Phaseol.; Piloc.; Ver. wv.

Stertorous — Acon.; Am. c.; Arn; Bell.; Bry.; Can. ind.;
Cinch.; Euphorb. dath; Helleb.; Hippoz.; Hydroc. ac.;
Lob. purp.; Naja; Nat. sal.; Uinanthe; Op.; Phaseol.;
Phos.; Piloc.; Secs Sulphon.; Tanac; Trion; Ver. v.;
Viscum

Suffocative — Acon fer.. Ant. t.; Apts, Ars.; Bell.; Brom.;
Cact ; Cale. c.; Camph.; Chlorum; Cinch.; Coral.; Cupr.
m.; Dtg.; Graph.; Grind.; Guaiac., Hep.; Hydroc. ac.;
lod.; Ipec.; Kali bich.; Kali iod.; Lach.; Latrod.; Led.;

Lil. t.: Lye; Meli.; Meph.; Merc. cy.; Merc. pr. rub;

Morph.; Mosch.; Naja: Puls.; Samb.; Spong.; Swl.; Tub.;

Trifol; Ver. a.; Viscum.
1002 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

Wheezing— Alum.; Am. c.; Ant. t; Aral.; Ars.; Can. s.;
Carbo v.; Card. m.; Eriod.; Grind., Hep., Iod.; lodof ;
Ipec.; Justicia; Kal: bich.; Kah c.; Lycop.; Nux v5
Prun. sp.; Samb.; Senega; Spong. See Asthma

Whistling -—— Ars.; Ipec.; Samb.

TRACHEA — Burning: Ars.; Kali bich ; Sang See Irritation.

Catarrh — Alum.; sint. t.; Arg. n; Ars.; Bry.; Cale. ¢.;
Can. s.; Carbo v.; Caust.; Coccus; Conv.; Cotyled.; Ferr.
iod ; Iberis; Illic.; Kali bich.; Mang.; Merc.; Naph.;
Nat. m; Nux v.; Paris; Rumex; Sil; Stann.; Sticta;
Sul.; Tab.

Constricted feeling — Brom; Cistus; Guaco, Mosch.; Nux
v.; Xerophyl. .

Dryness - Ars; Dell.; Carbo v.; Rumex; Sang.; Spong. See
Irritation.

Irritation, rawness, hypersensitiveness — Acet. ac.; Alsc.;
Ambros.; Apis; Arg. m.; Arg. n.; Ars, Bell, Brom;
Bry.; Can. s; Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Caust.; Hyos.; Kali
bich.; Kaolin; Lach.; Mentha; Osm., Phos., Rumex;
Sang.; Stann.; Still.; Sul.; Syph ; Xcrophyl.

Tickling — Ambros.; Brom.; Calc. c ; Caps.; Carbo _v.; Cop.;
Ipec.; Lach.; Nux v.; Phos.; Rumex. See Cough
SKIN

ACNE ROSACEA --- Agar.; Ars.; drs. br.; Ars. iod.; Bell;
Carbo _an., Caust.; Chrysar.; Eug. j; Hydrocot.; Kali
br.; Kali_iod.; Kreos.; Nux v.; Oophor.; Petrol; Psor.;
Radium; Khus r.; Rhus t; Sep.; Sul; Sul. tod.; Sulphur
ous ac.

ACNE SIMPLEX — int. c.; Ant. 8 a: dnt ts Ars; irs
or.; Ars, iod.; Ars. sul, rub.; <Asimina; Aster.; Bell.
Bellis; Berb. ag.; Bov.; Calc. prcr.; Cale. sil.; Calc. s.
Carb. ac.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Cic.; Cim.; Cob.; Echin.
Eng. y.; Granat.; Graph; Hep > Hydrocot.; Jugl. c.; Jug.
r.; Kah br., Kah bich; Kali_sed.. Kali_m.; Lappa; Led.-
Lyc., Nabul. s.; Nat. br.; Nat m.; Nit. ac; Nex v
QOleand.; Phos. ac.; Psor.: Puls.; Radium; Selen.; Sep.
Su.; Staph.; Sul; Sul. sod.; Sumb.; Thuya.

From abuse of KI --- Aur.

From abuse of mercury --- Kali iod.; Mez; Nit ac.

From cheese -— Nux v

From ccsmetics — Bov

From syphilis-- Auit.; Aali iod., Merc. s.; Nit. ac. See
Male Sexual System.

In drunkards — Ant. c.; Par. c: Led.; Nux wv; Rhus t.

In fleshy young peuple, with coarse habits — Kali br.

In scrofulous -- Bar. c ; Brom.; Calc. c.; Cale. p.; Con.; Tod.;
Mere. s; Mez; Sil.; Sul.

In tubercular children - ‘Tub.

With cachexia -— Ars.; Carbo v.; Nat. m.: Sil.

With gastric derangements- Ant. c.. Carbe ov.;  Cim;
Lye; Nux v.; Puls.; Robin.

With glandular swellings — Brom.: Calc. s.; Mere. s.

With indurated papules — Agar.; Arn.; Berb. v;  Bov.;
Brom.; Corbo an.; Cob.; Con.; Eug. j.; Yod.; Kali br.;
Kali iod.; Nat. br.; Nit .; Robin.; Sui; Thuya.

With menstrual irregularities — Aur. m. n.; Bell.; Berb.
aq, Berb. v.; Cale. c.; Cim.; Con.; Eug. j.; Graph.; Kali
br.; Kali c.; Kreos.; Nat. m.; Psor.; Puls.; Sang.; Sars.;
Thuya; Ver. a. .

With pregnancy — Bell.; Sab.; Sars.; Sep.

With rheumatism -—— Led.; Rhus t

With sexual excesses —Aur.; Cale. c; Kali br.; Phos. ac.;
Rhus t.; Sep.; Thuya.

With symmetrical distribution — Arn.

ACTINOMYCOSIS — Hekla; Hippoz.: Kali iod.; Nit. ac.

ALOPECIA — Alum.; Anthrok.; rs; Cale. s.; Fluor, ac.;
Manein: Nat. m.; Phos. ac. Phos.; Piloc.; Pir 1; Sep.;
Tub.: Vinca. See Sealp (Head).

ANIDROSIS (deficient sweat, dry skin)-~Acet. ac.; Acon.;
Zith.; Alum.; Apoc.; Arg. n.; Ars; Bell.; Berb. ag.;
Crot t.: Graph.; lod.; Kals ars.; Kali c.; Kali iod.; Lach.;
Mag c; Afalundr ; Nat. c.; Nur m.; Op.; Petrol.; Phos.;
Plumb. us ; Psor.; Sanic.; Sars.; Sec.; Sul; Thyr.

1004 THE SKIN

ANTHRAX — Carbuncle; Malignant pustule: Acon.; Anthrac.;
Apis; Arct 1.; Arn.; Ayrs.; Bell; Bothrops; Bry.; Bufo,
Cale. chlor.; Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Crot.; Cupr. ars.;
Echin.; Fuphorb.; Hep i Hippoz.; Lach.; Led.; Mur. ac.;
Nit. ac.; Phyt.; Pyr., Rhus t.f Scolop.; Sec.; Sil; Sul.; Sul.
ac.; Tar. c.

ATROPHY — of skin: — Ars.; Cocc.; Graph ; Sabad.; Sul.

BLISTERS, small — Apis; Canth.; Nat. m; Rhus t.; Sec.

BLOOD BOILS — Anthrac., Arn.; Ars.; Crot; Lach.; Phos.
ac.; Pyr; Sec.

BLUENESS — Lividity: Agar.; Aid. Ant. ¢; Arn.y <Ars.;
Cadm. s.; Camph.; Carbo an; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Crat.;
Crot.; Cupr.; Dig.; Helleb.; Ipec.; Kali iod.; Lach.; Laur. ;
Morph.; Mur. ac.; Sec.; Sul. ac.; Tar. c., Ver. a.; Vipera,
Sce Face. ‘

BROMIDROSIS (offensive sweat) — Art v.; Bapt ; Bry.3‘ Carbo
an.; Cinch.; Con.; Graph.; Hep.; Lve., Merc s.; Ri . UC;
Osm.; Petrol., Phos; Psor  Pulex; Sep.; Sti; °S8tann.;
Staph.; Sul; Tellur.; Thuya; Vaniol. ‘

Bromidrosis, sour odor of body — Calc, c.; Cham.; Colost.;
graph; Hep.; Kreos.; Lac d.; Mag. ¢.; Rheum, Sul. ac.,
ual,

BURNING — Acet. ac + -con.; .4gar.; Anac.; Apis; Ars ; Bapt.;
Bell... Bry.. Cunth, Caps.; Caust.; Dule.; Euphorb.;
Formica; Grind.; Kal c.; Kreos.; Medusa; Nur v.; Phos.,
Radium; Ran. b., Rhus t.; Sang; Sec.; Sul.; Vespa.
See Pruritus.

CALLOSITIES (corne) — Acon of.: Ant. t., Elaeis; Ferr.
pier.; Graph., Hydr.; Lye; Nt. ac., Petrol; Ran b.;
Rhus t.; Sars, Sep; Sil., Thuya, See Feet (Locomotor
System).

CHILBLAINS — .1brot.; Ayar.; Apis; Ars.; Bor.; Cale. c;
Calend.; Canth.; Carbo an.; Crot. t.; Cycl.; Ferr. wi?
Fragar.; Ham.; Hep.; Lach.; Led.; Merc.; Mur. ac.; Net.
ac.; Petrol.; Plant.; Puls.; Rhus ¢.; Sil; Sul. ac.; Sul;
Tamus; Tereb.; Thyr; Ver. v.; Zine. m.

CHLOASMA — Liver spots, moth patches: Arg. 1.,  Aur.;
Cadm. s.; Card. m.; Cad; Cob.; Cur.; Guar.; Laur.;
Lye.; Nat. hyposul.; Paul.; Petrol; Plumb m.; Sep.;
Sul: ,Zhuya. See Spots. copper-colored.

CICATRICES — Affections: —- Caust.; Fluor. ac ; Graph.; Iod.;
Nit ac; Phyt.; Sil; Sul. ac.; Thosin.

COLDNESS — Abies c; .fcet. ac; Acon.; Agar; Ail.; Ant.
Chlor.; Ant. c.; dwt. t.; Ars.; Bothrops; Cale. c.; Camph.,
Carbo v., Chel.; Chin. ars.; Cinch.; Crat.; Crot.; Dig.;
Ipec., Jatropha, Lach.; Latrod.; Laur.; Med.; Pyr.; Rhus
t.; Sec.; Tab, Wer. a. See Collapse (Nervous Sys-
tem); Coldness (Fever).

COMEDO — -4obrot.. Bur. c., Bell: Cale. sil; Cie; Dig. Eug.
J; Mez; Nit. ac., Sab.; Selen.; Sep.; Sul.; Sumd.
DECUBITUS (bed sores) -— Arg. n.; Arn., Bapt.; Carb. ac;
Carbo v.; Cinch.; Echin.; Fluor. ac.; Hippoz.; Lach ;
Mur._ac., Peonta; Petrol; Pyr.; Sil; Sul. ac.; Vipera.

. See Ulcer
DERMAL (trophic lesions) — Thallium.
1004 THE SKIN

ANTHRAX — Carbuncle; Malignant pustule: Acon.; Anthrac.;
Apis; Arct 1.; Arn.; Ayrs.; Bell; Bothrops; Bry.; Bufo,
Cale. chlor.; Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Crot.; Cupr. ars.;
Echin.; Fuphorb.; Hep i Hippoz.; Lach.; Led.; Mur. ac.;
Nit. ac.; Phyt.; Pyr., Rhus t.f Scolop.; Sec.; Sil; Sul.; Sul.
ac.; Tar. c.

ATROPHY — of skin: — Ars.; Cocc.; Graph ; Sabad.; Sul.

BLISTERS, small — Apis; Canth.; Nat. m; Rhus t.; Sec.

BLOOD BOILS — Anthrac., Arn.; Ars.; Crot; Lach.; Phos.
ac.; Pyr; Sec.

BLUENESS — Lividity: Agar.; Aid. Ant. ¢; Arn.y <Ars.;
Cadm. s.; Camph.; Carbo an; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Crat.;
Crot.; Cupr.; Dig.; Helleb.; Ipec.; Kali iod.; Lach.; Laur. ;
Morph.; Mur. ac.; Sec.; Sul. ac.; Tar. c., Ver. a.; Vipera,
Sce Face. ‘

BROMIDROSIS (offensive sweat) — Art v.; Bapt ; Bry.3‘ Carbo
an.; Cinch.; Con.; Graph.; Hep.; Lve., Merc s.; Ri . UC;
Osm.; Petrol., Phos; Psor  Pulex; Sep.; Sti; °S8tann.;
Staph.; Sul; Tellur.; Thuya; Vaniol. ‘

Bromidrosis, sour odor of body — Calc, c.; Cham.; Colost.;
graph; Hep.; Kreos.; Lac d.; Mag. ¢.; Rheum, Sul. ac.,
ual,

BURNING — Acet. ac + -con.; .4gar.; Anac.; Apis; Ars ; Bapt.;
Bell... Bry.. Cunth, Caps.; Caust.; Dule.; Euphorb.;
Formica; Grind.; Kal c.; Kreos.; Medusa; Nur v.; Phos.,
Radium; Ran. b., Rhus t.; Sang; Sec.; Sul.; Vespa.
See Pruritus.

CALLOSITIES (corne) — Acon of.: Ant. t., Elaeis; Ferr.
pier.; Graph., Hydr.; Lye; Nt. ac., Petrol; Ran b.;
Rhus t.; Sars, Sep; Sil., Thuya, See Feet (Locomotor
System).

CHILBLAINS — .1brot.; Ayar.; Apis; Ars.; Bor.; Cale. c;
Calend.; Canth.; Carbo an.; Crot. t.; Cycl.; Ferr. wi?
Fragar.; Ham.; Hep.; Lach.; Led.; Merc.; Mur. ac.; Net.
ac.; Petrol.; Plant.; Puls.; Rhus ¢.; Sil; Sul. ac.; Sul;
Tamus; Tereb.; Thyr; Ver. v.; Zine. m.

CHLOASMA — Liver spots, moth patches: Arg. 1.,  Aur.;
Cadm. s.; Card. m.; Cad; Cob.; Cur.; Guar.; Laur.;
Lye.; Nat. hyposul.; Paul.; Petrol; Plumb m.; Sep.;
Sul: ,Zhuya. See Spots. copper-colored.

CICATRICES — Affections: —- Caust.; Fluor. ac ; Graph.; Iod.;
Nit ac; Phyt.; Sil; Sul. ac.; Thosin.

COLDNESS — Abies c; .fcet. ac; Acon.; Agar; Ail.; Ant.
Chlor.; Ant. c.; dwt. t.; Ars.; Bothrops; Cale. c.; Camph.,
Carbo v., Chel.; Chin. ars.; Cinch.; Crat.; Crot.; Dig.;
Ipec., Jatropha, Lach.; Latrod.; Laur.; Med.; Pyr.; Rhus
t.; Sec.; Tab, Wer. a. See Collapse (Nervous Sys-
tem); Coldness (Fever).

COMEDO — -4obrot.. Bur. c., Bell: Cale. sil; Cie; Dig. Eug.
J; Mez; Nit. ac., Sab.; Selen.; Sep.; Sul.; Sumd.
DECUBITUS (bed sores) -— Arg. n.; Arn., Bapt.; Carb. ac;
Carbo v.; Cinch.; Echin.; Fluor. ac.; Hippoz.; Lach ;
Mur._ac., Peonta; Petrol; Pyr.; Sil; Sul. ac.; Vipera.

. See Ulcer
DERMAL (trophic lesions) — Thallium.
THE SKIN 1005

DERMATALGIA (pain, sensitiveness, soreness) — Agar.; Apis
Ars.; Bad, Bell.; Bellis; Bov ; Chin. Cinch,, Con.
Crot. t; Dohch.; Euphorb ; Fagop.; Hep.. Kah c.> Lach
Lyc; Nux m; Oleand., Osm.; Paonia; Petrol., Phos.
Psor., Ran. s.; Rhus d.; Rhus ¢.; Semperv. t.; Sep, Sil.
Sul., Tar. co; Ther., Vinca: Xerophyl.

DRYNESS —.fcon., <ilum, Ars, Bell; Cale c; Graph.
Hydrocot.; Ind.; Lyc.; Nat. c.; Nit. ac.; Nux m.; Piloc.
Plumb.; Psor.; Sec.

ECCHYMOSES - 4ith.; Arn; Ars.; Bellis; Bothrops; Carbo
v.; Chloral; Crot., Ham; Kreos.; Led.; Phos, Rhus t.
Sec.; Sud. ac.; Supraren. ex.; Tereb.

ECHTHYMA — Ant. ci; Ant ¢t.: Ars; Bell.; Cre; Cistus
Crot. t.; Uydr; Jugl c; Jugl 1; Kali” bich.; Kreos.
Lach.; Merc. s; Nit. ac.; Petrol; Rhus t.; Sec.; Sil.
Sul.; Thuya.

ECZEMA — Zthops, Alnus; Alum.: Anac., Anthrok.; Ant c
Arbut ; 4rs; Ars iod.; Berb. aq.; Berh. vey Bor.; Bov.
Cale. c, Canth.; Caps.; Carb ac., Carbo v.: Castor eq.
Caust.; Chrysar., Cic.; Clem , Commocl.; Con; 3 Crot. t.
Dule ; Kuphorb.; Fluor. ac.; Frax. am.; Fuligo; Graph.
Hep.; Hippoz ; Hydrocot : Jug). c; Kal ars.; Kah m.
Kreos.; 3; Lye; Mang ac.; Mere. ¢ ; Merc. d.; Mere. pr. 1ub.
Merc. s.; Mes.; Mur. ac; Nat. ars ; Nat. m.; Nux v.
Oleand , Persicaria; Petrol.; Piloc.; Plumb.; Pod.; Prim
v.; Psor.; Rhus t.; Rhus v, Sars.; Sep.; Skook, ch.
Sul.; Sul. sod.; Thaya; Tub.; Ustil.; Vinea; Viola tr.
Xerophyl.; X-ray.

Acute form — Acon.; Anac.; Bell.; Canth.; Chin s.; Crot. t.
Mez.; Rhus t.; Sep.

Eczema, behind ears — Ars.; Arundo: Bov.; Graph.; Hep.
ugl. or; Kali m.; Lyc.; Mes.; Oleand,, Peirol.; Psor.

hus t.; Scrophul; Sep.; Staph. See Ears.

Eczema, of face — ‘Anac.; ; Ant. c; Bac.; Cale. ¢.; Carb.
Cic.; Col; Cornus c.; Crot t., Hyper.; Kali ars.; Led.
Merc. pr. ’ rub.: Psor.; Rhus t; Sep.; Staph.; Sul.; Sul.
1od., Vinca. See Face.

Eczema, of flexures of joints— Zth.; Am. c.; Caust.
Erpelee Hep.; Kali ars.; Lyc.; Mang. ac.; Nat. m.; Psor.

ep.

Eczema, of ‘hands — Anag.; Bar. c.; Berb. v.; Bov.; Cale.
c.3 Graph; Hep. Hyper 3 Jugl. c.; Kreos.; Malandr.
Petrol; Pix 1; Plumb.; Rhus v.; Sanic.; Selen.; Sep.
Still. ‘See Hands Crncametor System).

Eczema, of neurasthenic persons— Anac.;  Ars.; Phos.
Strych. ars.; Strych. p.; Viola tr.; Zinc. p.

Eczema, of pudendum — Am. c.; Ant. _c.;  Ars.; Canth..
Crot. t.; Hep.; Plumb. m.; Sep. See Female Sexuai
System.

Eczema, of rheumatico-gouty persons — Alum.; Arbut.
Lact. ac.; Rhus t.; Uric ac.; Urea.

Eczema, of ‘soalp — ‘Astae.; 3 Cale. c.; Cic.; Clem.; Fluor. ac.
Hep.; Kali m.; Lyc.; Mez.; Nat. m.; Oleand.; Petrol.,
Feor.§ is Se Sep.; Selen.; ; Staph.; Sul.; Tub.; Vinca; Viola od.

ee

1006 THE SKIN

Eczema, of strumous persons — Zthiops; Ars. iod.; Cale
c.; Cale. tod. ; Cale. Ri Caust.: Cistus; Crot. te Hep.;
Merc. c.; Merc. 5.3 ; Rumex; Sep. il.

Eczema, madidans — Con.; Dulc.; | ep. 3 3; Kali m.; Mere. c.;
Merc. pr. rub.; Mez.; Sep.; Tub.; Viola tr.

Eczema, with pigmentation in circumscribed areas follow-

ing — Berb. v.

Eczema, with urinary, gastric, atic disorders — Lyc.

Eczema, worse at menstrual ited menopause — Mang. ac.

Eczema, worse at seashore, ocean voyage, excess of salt —

at. m.
ELEPHANTIASIS — Anac. or.; Ars.; Calop.; Card. Mm. ; Elaess;
Graph.; Ham.; H3drocot.; Iod.; Lye.; ‘Myrist. s.; Sil.
EPHELIS (sunburn) — Bufo; Kali c.; Robin.; Ver. a.
EPITHELIOMA — Acet. ac.; Alumen; Ars.; Cic.; Condur.;
Con.; Euphorb; Fuligo; Hoang n; Hydr.; + eau > Kali
ars.; Kali s.; Lapis alb.; Lob. erin.; Lyc.; t. cacodyl.;
Scrophul.; Sep.; Sil.; Thuya. See Face.
ERUPTIONS — Copper-colored: Ars.; Carbo an.; Kreos.; Nit.

Eruptions, dry, scaly —Alumen; Anag., Ant. ¢.3 Ars;
a iod.; Berb. aq.; Bov.; Cadm. s.; Canth.; Corydal.;
Ruphorb. ds d.; or h. Hydrocot.; Iod.; Kali ars.; Kali m.;

8.5 alandr.; Mere, s.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.;
Patrol: Phew. é mit 3 eRe 4 Pix 1; Psor.; Sars.;
Selen.; Sep.; ws erophyl.

Eruptions, id “tioist —'dthops, ‘Ant. c.; Ant. t.; Bar.
c; Caust.; Clem.; Crot. t.; Dulc.; Graph.; He; ei Lye.;
Mancin.; 3 Merc. s.; Aleg.; Nat. m.; Dleand.; Petrol. ; Psor.,
Rhus t.; Sep.; Staph.; Stront.; Variol.; ; Viola tr.

Eruptions, pustular — Alnus; Ant. c.; Ant. t; Bell.; Berb.

Bufo; Chel.; Cic.; Croft. t.; Echin.; Euphorb. Hep.;
Hippoz.; Tris; Jugl. r.; Kali bich.; Kali iod.; ‘Krecs::
Ljach.: Mere. c.; Merc. s.; Nit. ac. Phyt.; Psor.; Ran.
b.; Rhus v.; Sep.; Sil; sul; Sul. iod.; Taxus; Variol.

Eruptions, scabby —- Ant. cy Ars. ; Cale. ¢.; Cic.; Dule.;
Graph ; Hep.; Lyc.; Merc.; Mes. ; Mur. ac.; Nat. mj;
Petrol.; Staph.; Su/.; Viola tr.; Vinca.

Eruptions, better in winter — ali bich.

Eruptions, worse in spring — Nat. s.; Psor.; Sang.: Sars.

Eruptions, worse in winter — Alum.; Ars.; Petrol.; Psor.;
Sabad.

ERYSIPELAS — Acon ; Anac. o¢ ; Aranth; Apis; Arn.; Ars.;
Atrop.; Aur.; Bell.; Camph.; Canth.; Carb. ac.; Carbo 3.:
Cinch,; Commocl.; Cop.; Crot.; Crot. t.; Echin. ; Euphorb.;
Graph; Hep.; Jugl. r.; iLach.; Yed.; Nat. my; Nat. s.;
Prim. ob.; Ran. ¢.; Rhus i; Rhus v.; Samb.; Sul;
Taxus; Ver. v.; Xerophyl.

Afebrile — Graph.. Hep.; Lyc.

Biliary, catarrhal duodenal symptoms — Hydr.

Constitutional tendency— Calend.; Graph.; Lach.; Psor.;

iy

Edema, persisting— Apis; Ars; Aur. ; Graph.; Hep.; Lyc.;

Facial— Apis; Arn.; Bell.; Bor.; Canth.; Carbo an.; Eu-
ive Phorb.; Graph.; Hep.; Rhus t.; Solan. n; Sul.
THE SKIN 1007

Leg, below knee - — Sul
mma — Carbo v.; Sul.

Neonatorum -- Bell.; Camph.

Phlegmonous— Acon.; Anthrac.; Arn.; Ars.; Bell.; Bothrops;
Ciot.; Ferr. p., Graph.; Hep.; Hippoz.; Lach.; Merc.; Rhus
t.; Sil; Tar. c.; Ver. v.

Recurrent and chronic —- Ferr. p; Graph.; Nat. m.; Rhus t.;

is

Repercussion — Cupr. ac.

Senile — 4m. c.; Carbo an.

Traumatic — Calend ; Psor.

Traumatic: umbilical, of new born — Apis.

Vesicular — Anac. oc.: Arn.; Canth.; Carb. ac; Caust.;
Crot. t.; Euphorb., Mez; Rhus t.; Rhus v.; Tereb.; Urt.;
Verb.; Ver. v.

Wandering — ‘4rs., Cinch.; Graph.; Hep.; Hydr.; Puls.; Sul.

ERYTHEMA — Intertrigo (chafing): Zth.; Ars.; Bell.; Bor..
Cale c.; Caust.; Cham.; Fagop.; Graph.; Jugl. r.; Kali br.;
Lyc.; Merc. s.; Mez., Oleand.; Ox. ac.; Petrol; Psor ;
Sul. ac.; Sul.

Erythema multiforme — Bor. ac.; Cop.; Vespa.

Erythema nodosum — Acon.; Ant. c.; Apis, Arn; Ars;
Chin, ars.; Chin. s.; Cinch.; Ferr.; Led.; Nat. ¢.; Ptel.;
Rhus 1.; Rhus v.

Erythema simplex— 4ron.; Antipyr.; Apis; Arn.; Ars. iod.;
Bell.; Bufo; Canth.; Chloral.; Echin.; Buphorb. d.; Gaulth.;
Grind.; Kali c.; Lact. ac.; Merc.; Mes.; Narcissus; Nux
v.; Plumb. chrom.; Rhus t.; Robin.; Tereb.; Urt.; Ustil.;
Ver. v.; Xerophyi.

Fibroma — Calc. ars.; Con.; Iod.; Kali br.; Lye; Sec.; Thuya.

FISSURES — Rhagades, chaps: Alum.; Anthrok.; Ars. s. fl.;
Bad.; Bar. c.; Cact. fl.; Céstus; Condur.; Eug. j.; Graph.;
Hep.: Kali ars; Led; Lye; Malandr.; Mang. ac.; Merc.
i. r.; Merc. pr. rub.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Oleand.; Petrol. ;
Pix 1.; Ran. b.; Ratanh.; Rhus t.; Sars.; Sil; Sul; Nero-
phyl.; X-ray.

FLABBINESS — Non-Tonicity: Abrot.; Ars.; Calc, ¢.; Ipec.;
Merc. d.; Morph., Nat. m.; Sanic.; Sars.; Salvia; Thyr.;
Ver. a.

FOREIGN BODIES — To promote expulsion: Anag.; Hep.; Sil.

FORMICATION — Tingling, numbness: Acon.; Ambra; Apium
gr.; Arundo; Calend.; Cocaine; Cod.; Medusa; e8.;
Morph.; Oleand.; Phos. ac.; Plat.; Rumex; Sec.; Selen.,
Sil.; Staph.; Sul. ac.; Val; Zinc. m. i

FUNGUS HEMATODES-— 4rs.; Lach.; Lyc.; Mancin.; Phos.;

uya. : ite!

FURUNCLE (boil) — Abrot.; Aith.; Ananth.; Anthrac.; Ant.
c.; Arn; Ars.; Bell; Bellis; Cale. hi hos.; Calc. picr.;
Cale. s.; Carbo v.; Echin.; Ferr. iod.; Gels. Hep.; Hip-
oz.; Ichth.; Lach.; Lye; Med.; Merc. s.; Ol. myr.;

perc.; Phos, ac.; Phyt.; Picr. ac.; Rhus r.; Sec.; Sil;
Sul.; Sul. iod.; Sul.tac.; Tar. 65 Tayi Zinc ox. ,

Furuncle, recurrent_tendency— Arn.; Ars; Berb. v.; Calc.

5 Cute. mur; Cale. p.; Cale. picr.; Echin.; Hep.; Sul.;
‘ub.
1008 THE SKIN

GANGRENE — Ant. c; Apis; Ars.; Bothrops; Brass.; Calend.;
Canth.; Carb. ac.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Chlorum; Chrom.
oxy.; Cinch ; Crot.; Cupr. ars.; Echin.; Euphorb.; Ferr

.; Kali chlor.; Kali p.; Kreos.; Lach.; Polygon. pers.,
an. ac.; Sal. ac.; Sec.; Sul. ac.; Tar. c

Gangrene, senile — Am. c.; Ars.; Cepa; Sec.; Sul. ac.

Gangrene, traumatic — Arn.; Lach.; Sul. ac.

HERPES (tetter) — Acon.; /Ethiops; Alnus; Anac.; Ananth.
Anthrok ; Apis; Arn.; Ars.; Bar. c.; Bor.; Bry.; Bufo
Calc s; Canth, Corb. ac.; Caust.; Cistus; Clem.; Com
mocl., Crot. t., Dulc_; Eucal.; Graph.; Kaki bich.; Lith
c; Merc. s.; Mez.; Nat. 2; Nat. m.; Nst ac.; Petrol.;
Phos. ac.; Psor.; Ran b.; Ran. sc.; Rhus t.; Sars.; Sep.;
Sil.; Sul; Tellur.; Variol.; Xerophyl.

Herpes, between fingers — Nit. ac.

Herpes, chronic — Alnus.

Herpes, Circinatus, tonsurans — Ars. s. fl.; Bar. c.; Cale.
ac.; Cale. c.; Chrysar.; Equis. arv.; Hep.; Nat. c.; Nat.
in.; Sep.; Tellur.; Tub. See Trichophytosis.

Herpes, — Fluor. ac ; Mang.; Sep.; Sil.

Herpes, of chest, nape of neck — Petrol.

Herpes, of chin — Ars.; Caust.; Graph.; Mez.; Sil.

Herpes, of face —- Apis; Ars.; Calc. fil.; Caps.; Caust.; Clem.;
Con.; Lach.; Nat. m., Ran. b.; Rhus t.; Sep.: Sul. See

‘ace.

Herpes, of flexures of knees— Graph.; Hep.; Nat. m.; Sep.;
Xerophyl.

Herpes, of genitals — Aur. mur.; Cale. c; Caust.; Crot. t.;
Dule.; Hep., Jugl. r.; Merc. s.; Nit. oc.; Petrol.; Phos.
ac, Sars.; Tereb, See Male Sexual System.

Herpes, of hands — Cistus; Dulc.; Limul.; Lith c.; Nit. ac.

Herpes, of knees — Carbo v.; Petrol.

Herpes, of thigh — Graph.; Petrol. . .

Herpes, neuralgia after — Kal.; Mes.; Ran. b.; Still.; Variol.

Herpes, with glandular swelling — Dulc.

HERPES ZOSTER — Zona; shingles — Apis; Arg. n.; Ars.;
Aster.; Canth.; Carbon. ox.; Caust.; Ced.; Crstus; Com-
mocl.; Crot. t.; Dohch.; Dule ; Graph.; Grind.; Hyper.;
Iris; Kali ars.; Kali m.; Kal.; Merc. s.; Mes.; Morph;
Pip. m.; Prun. sp.; Ran. b.; Ran. sc.; Rhus ¢.; Sal. ac.;
Semperv. t.; Staph.: Strych. ars.; Sul.; Thuya; Variol.;
Zinc. p.; Zine. v.

Chronic — Ars.; Semperv. t.

Neuralgia, persisting --- Ars.; Dolich.; Kal.; Mes.; Ran. b.;
Still.; Zine. m.

HYDROA — Kali 10d.; Kreos.; Mag. c.; Nat. m.; Rhus v. See

Herpes.
HY, IDROSIS (excessive sweating) — 4 ret ac.; th;
By wicin; Am, c¢; Ant. t.; Ars. iod.; Bapt.; Bell.; Bolet.;

‘alc. ci; Uham.; Cinch.; Eser.; Ferr.; Graph.; Jabor.;

act, ac.; Merc, s.; Nat. c.; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Op.; Phos.

ea; Phos.; Piloc.; Samb.; Sanic.; Selen.; Sep.; Stl.;
Papel, ac.; Sul; Thuya; Ver, a. See Fever.

ICH ‘OSIS (fish skin disease) — Ars.; Ars. tod.; Aur;
a, s Graph.; Hydrocot.; Iod.; Kali iod.; Merc. s.; Nat.
or nthe; Phos.; Platanus; Plumb. m; Syph.; Sul;

huya; Thyr.
THE SKIN 1009

IMPETIGO — Alnus; Ant _c., Ant. s. a; Ant. t.; Avs.; Cale.
mur.; Cic.; Clem.; Dulc.; Euphorb.; Graph.; 11e%.; Iris;
Jugl. c.; Kah bich.; Kah n.; Lyc.; Mes.; Rhus t.; Rhus
v.; Sep.; Sil; Sul.; Thuya; Viole tr

KELOID — Fluor. ac.; Graph.; Nit. ac.; Sab.; Sil.

LENTIGO (freckles) -- Am. c.; Bad.; Cale. ¢.; Graph.; Kak
c.; Lyc.; Mur. ac.; Nat. c.; Nst. ac.; Petrol.; Phos.; Sep.;
Sul.; Tab.

_ LEPRA, leprosy — Anac.; Ars. ; Bad.; Calopt.; Carb. ac.;
Chaulmugra; Commocl.; Cupr. ac.; Cur.; Dipterocarpus;
Elacis; Graph.; Guano; Gynocardie; Hoang n.; Hura;
Hydroco:.; Jatropha goss.; Lach.; Merc, s.; U&nanthe;
Phos.; Prp. m.; Sec.; Sep.; Sil.; Thyr.

LEUCODERMA — Ars. s. fl., Nat. m.; Nit ac; Sumb.; Zinc.
p. See Face, pale.

LICHEN PLANUS. -Agar.; Anac.; Ant. c.; Apis; drs.;_Ars.
tod.; Chin. ars.; Iod.; dugl. c.; Kah bich.; Kali iod.; Led;
Merc ; Sars; taph.; Sul. tod.

LICHEN SIMPLEX — Alum.; Am. m.; Ananth., Ant. c.; Apis;
Ars., Bell.; Bov.; Bry.; Calad., Castan.: Dule.; Jugl. c;
Kali ars.; Kreos., Led., Lyc.; Merc. s.; Nabul. s.; Nat. c.;
Blont.; Phyt.; Rumex; Sep.; Sui., Sul. iod.; Tilia. See

ene.

LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUM — Apis; Cistus; Guarana; Hydro-
cot.; lod.; Kal bich., Phos.; Sep.; Thyr.

LUPUS VULGARIS ~— Anis; Ars.: Ars. sod.; Aur. ars.; Aur
iod.; Aur. mur.; Caic c.; Cale. iod.; Cale s.; Cistus, Con-
dur.; Ferr. picr.; Form. ac.* Formica; Grayh.; Guarane;
Hep.; Hydr.; Hydrocot.; Ind.; Jequir.; Kah bich ; Kak
wod.; Lyc.; Nit ac; Phyt.; Staph.; Swi; Thiosin.; Thuya;
Tub,; Urea; X-ray.

MILIARIA (prickly heat) — 4con.; Am. m.: rs.; | Bry.;
Gace entaurca; Hura; Jabor.; Led.; Raph.; Syzigium;

rt.

MILIUM — Calc. iod.; Staph.; Tab. See Acne.

MOLLUSCUM — Brom.; Bry.; Calc. ars.; Calc. ¢.; Kali iod.;
Lyc.; Merc. s; Nat. m.; Sih; Sul.; Teucr.

MORBUS SUDATORIUS — Acon.; Ars.; Carbo v.; Jabor.; Merc.

MORPHZEA — Ars.; Phos.; Sil. See Scleroderma.

NJZEVUS -— Acet. ac.; Cale. c.; Carbo v.; Condur.; Fluor. ac.;
Lyc.; Phos.; Radium; Thuya.

NAILS — Affections in general: Alum. ; Ant. c.; Castor eq.;
Graph. ; Hydr.; Nit, ac.; Sil; Upas; X-ray.

Affections of pulp, nails recede, leave raw surface — Sec.

Atrophy — Sil.

Biting of — Am. br.; Arum. ; .

Blueness — Dig.; Ox. ac. See Cyanosis (Circulatory System).

Deformed — brittle, thickened (onchogryposis) Alum.; An-
anth.; Ant, c.; Ars.; Caust.; Diosc.; Fluor. ac.; Graph;
Mere.} Nat. m.; Sabad.; Sec.; Senec.; Sep.; Sil.; Thuya;

ray.

Eruptions — Around nails: Psor.; Stann. mur.

Falling off — Brass.: But. ac.; Helleb. fort.; Helleb.

Hangnails — Nat. m.; Sul.; Upas.

Hypertrophy (onychauxis) — Graph.
1010 THE SKIN

Inflammation — Around root (paronychia): Alum; Bufo;
Cale. s.; Diosc , Graph.; Hep.; Nat. s.. See Felon.

Inflammation of pulp (onychia) -- Arn.; Calend.; Fluor. ac.;
Graph.; Phos.; Psor.; Sars.; Sil.; Upas.

Inflammation, under toe nail — Sabad.

Ingrowing toe nail — Caust.; Magnet. aust.; Nit. ac; Sé.;
Staph.; Teucr.; Tetradyn. .

Injury to matrix — Iydr. :

Irritable feeling under finger nails, relieved by biting them
-— Am. brom.

Itching —- About root of: | Upas.

Pains — Burning under: Sars.

Pains, gnawing, beneath finger nails — Alum.; Sars ; Eep.

Pains, neuralgic, beneath finger nails — Berb. .v.

Pains, neuralgic — Alum.; Cepa; Colch.

Pains, smarting at roots — Sul.

Pains, splinter-like, beneath toe nails — Fluor. ac

Pains, ulcerative, beneath toe nails -— Ant. c: eucr

Softening — Plumb.; Thuya .

Spots, white on — Alum.; Nit. ac.

Ulceration -—— Alum; Graph.; Mere.; Phos., Psor.; Sang.;
Sars; Sil; Teucr.; Tetradyn.

Yellow color —- Con.

CDEMA, SWELLING Acal ; Acct. ac.; Acon ; Agar ; Ange.;
Apis; Ars., Bell.; Belhs; Bothrops; Bry.; Dig.; Elat.; Eu-
Phorb.; Ferr m.; Helleb.; Hippoz.; Lach.; Lye; Nat. c.;

at. sal; Oleand.; Prim. ob.; Prun. sp.; Rhus t.;. Samb.;
Thy.

CEDEMA, ANGIONEUROTIC — Agar.; Antipyr.

OILY -- Skin: Bry.; Merc., Plumb. m.; Psor.; Raph.; Sanic.
See Seborrheea.

PELLAGRA — 4rs.; Bov ; Cinch.; Pedic.; Plumb. iod.; Psor.;
Sec., Sedinha; Sul.

Pellagra, cachexia — Ars.; Sec.
Pellagra, fissures, desquamation, skin eruptions - Guiaph.;
Hep ; 1gn.; Phos.; Puls.; Sep.

PEMPHIGUS — Anac.; Antipyr.; Ars.; Arum ti.; Bufo; Caltha;
Canth,, Carbon. ox.: Caust.; Dule.; Jugl. c.; Lach.; Man-
cin.: Merc. c; Mere. pr. rub; Mere. s.; Nat. sal.; Phos.
ac; Phos; Ran. b.; Ram. sc.; Raph.; RaAus-t.3 Sep.3
Thuya. : ‘

PETICHIZ -—- 4rn,; Ars.; Cale. c.; Cur.; Mur. ac; Phos.; Sec.;
Sul. ac. See Ecchymosis. . of

PHTHIRIASIS — Bac.; Cocc ; Merc.; Nat. m ; Oleand : Psor.;
Sabad.; Staph. . re

PITYRIASIS (dermatitis exfoliativa) — Ars ; Ars. jod.; Hac.;

a rb, aqg.; Cale. c; Carb. ac.: Clem; Colch.; FIRah,. ac.;
Groph.; Kali_ars , Mang. c.; Mere. pr. rub.; Mes. at.
ars.; Phds.; Pip. m.; Sep.; Staph.; Sal; Sul. iod.; ‘Sulphur.
ac., Tellur.; Tereb.; Thyr.

PRAIRIE ITCH — Led ; Rhus t.; Rumex; Sul.

PR — Acon.; Alnus; Ambra; Anthrok.; Ars.) Ars. dad. ;

Carb, ac.; Chloral.; Dolich.; Diosces Kali_bieh.;
& 3 Wlerc.; Mes.; Nat. ac.; Oleand.: Oophor.;, ,Red@ic.;
f Rhus tf) Raus v., Rumex; Silk; Sui; Terebo 0. ?
THE SKIN 1011

PRURITUS (itching of skin) — Acon.; Agar.; Alum.; Ambra;
Anac oc.; Anac.; Anag; Antipvr.; Ars.; Calad.; Cale. c.
Canth.; Carb. ac.; Chloral; Chrysar.; Clem.; Crot. ¢.
Dolich.; Dulc.; Elacis; Fagop.; Fluor. ac.; Formica; Graph.
Granat.; Grind.; Guano; Hep.; Hydrocot ; Hyper.; [chth.
Ign; Lyc.; Kreos.; Mag. c; Malandr.; Mang. ac.; Med.
Merc; Mes., Morph.; Niccol.; Nux v.; Oleand.; Op.
Petrol.; Pir 1.; Prim. ob.; Psor ; Pulex; Radium; Ran. 9
Rhus t.; Rhus v.; Rumex; Sep.; Staph.; Sul.; Sul ac.
Syzgium; Tar. c.; Urt.; Vespa; Xerophyl.

Pruritus, of ankles -Nat p; Selen; Sep.

Pruritus, of bends of elbows, knees — Selen.; Sep.

Pruritus, of chest, upper limbs — Arundo.

Pruritus, of ears, nose, arms, urethra - - Sul. iod

Pruritus, of face, hands, scalp - Clem.

Pruritus of face, shoulders, chest -— Kali br.

Pruritus, of feet, ankles — Led.

Pruritus, of feet, legs — Bov

Pruritus, of feet, soles of —— Ananth.: Wydrocot

Pruritus, of genitals -—— Ambra; Ars. iod.; Calad.; Carb. ac.;
Carbo v.; Colch.; Collins.; Crot. t.; Dule.; Fuligo; Guano;
Helon.; Kreos.; Mez.; Nit, ac; Rhus t.; Rhus v.; Sep.;
Sil.; Tar. c. See Female Sexual System.

Pruritus, of hands, arms —- Pip. m; Selen

Pruritus, of joints, abdomen — Pinus sylv.

Pruritus, of knees, elbows, hairy parts -- Dolich.; Fagop

Pruritus, of nose -- Morph.; Strych.

Pruritus, of orifices — Fluor. ac.

Pruritus, of thighs, bends of knees — Zinc. m.

Pruritus, of webs of fingers, bends of joints — Hep.; Psor.;
Selen.; Sep.

Pruritus, ameliorated from cold — Berb. v.; Graph.; Mez.

Pruritus, ameliorated from hot water — Rhus v.

Pruritus, ameliorated from rubbing gently —Crot. t

Pruritus, ameliorated from scratching — Asaf.; Cadm. 5.3
Mang. ac.; Merc. s.; Oleand.: Rhus t.

Pruritus, ameliorated from warmth — Ars.; Petrol.; Rumex.

Pruritus, followed by bleeding, pains, burning -— Alum;
Ars.; Crot. t.; Murex; Pix 1; Psor.; Sep.; Sul; Tilia.

Pruritus, followed by, change of site of itching — Mez.;

taph a

Pruritus, without eruption — Dolichos.

Pruritus, worse from contact — Ran. b.

Pruritus, worse from exposure, cold air — Dulc.; Hep.; Nat.
s.; Oleand., Petrol.; Rhus t; Rumez.

Pruritus, worse from scratching — 4rs.; Berb. v.;.‘Crot. t.;
Led.; Mez.; Sep.; Sul. ' hee

Pruritus, worse from undressing; warmth of bed; at P. M.
— Alum; Ant. c.: Ars.; Asimina; Bellis; Bov.; Carbo
vv.y Card. m.; Cistus; Dule.; Jugi. ¢c.; Kali aré.; Kreos.;
Led.; Lyc.; Mentsp.; Merc.; Mere. ‘i. fk; Mes.:, Mat. s.;
Qieand. ; Psor.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Rumex; Sangs}' Sep.5 Sui.;

Pruritus, worse from washing, with cold water — Clem.

PSORIASIS — Ant. t; Avs.; Ars’ iod.; Aster.; Aur, ‘m. n.;

Berb. 27; Bor.; Carb, ac.; Chrysar.; Cie:y Coral.’ Cupr.;
Fluor. ac.; Graph.; Hep.; Hydrocot.; Iris} Kali ars.; Kals
1012 THE SKIN

br.; Kah ii es Mang. ac.;. Mere. aur.; Merc. s.;
Mur. ac.; Naph Nat. ars.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Nit. mur.
ac.; Petrol ; hos. Platanus; Sep.; Strych. ars. i, Strych.
p.; Stellar.; Sud.; Tereb.; Thuya; Thyr.; Tub.; Ustil.

Psoriasis, of palms" —Cale. ¢; ; Coral.; Graph. ; Hep.; Lye.;
Med.; Petrol.; Phos.; Selen.

Psoriasis, of prepuce, nails —Graph.; Scp.

Psoriasis, of tongue — Graph.; Mur. ac.; Sep. Sce Tongue
(Mouth).

PURPURA -Acon.; Arn.; Ars.; Bapt.; Rell.; Bry.; Carbo v.;
Chin. s; Chloral; Crot.; Ham.; Jugl. r.; Kali jod.; Wach.;
Merc. s.; Phos, ac.; Phos.; 3 Rhus t.; H Rhus v.; 3 Sec.; ; Sal.
ac.; Sul. ac.; Sulphon ; Tereb.; Ver. v.

With colic — Bov.; Col.; Cupr.; "Merc. c.; ; Thuya
With debility — Arn; 5 Ars.; Carbo v.; Lach.; Mere. s.3 Sul.

PURPURA HEMORRHAGICA — Alnus; Arn.; Ars., Both-
Tops; Bry.; Crot., Ferr. picr.; Ham.; Tod ; Ipec.; Lach.;
Led. Merc. c.; Merc. &3 ; Millet. ; Naja; Nat nit.; Phos.

Phos., Rhus v; Sec; Sul. ; Tereb.; Thiaspi.

PURPURA |RHEUMATICA — Si gcon.; “Ars; ; Bry.; ; erc. 5.3

RAYNAUD'S: DISEASE — See Gangrene.

RHINO-SCLERMA — Aur. m. n; Calc. be Guarana; Rhus r.

ROSEOLA eeve-rash) — Acon.; Bell.;

RUPIA— Ethiops; Ant. t; Ars.; Berb. ei Clem. ; Graph
Hydr.; Kal 10d.; Lach.; Merce. i. r.; Nit. ac.; Phyt eC. ;
Syph.; Thyr. See Syphilis (Maie Sexual System).

SARCOMA CUTIS — Cale np: Condur.; Nit. ac.; Sil.

SCABIES (itch) — Aloe; Anthrok. ; Caust.; Crot. t.; Hep.; ;
Tyye.; Mere.; Nux v.; Psor., Rhus v.; Selen.; Sep.; Sul.

SCLERODERMA -— scleriasis (hidebound skin): Alum.; Ant.
c.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Berb. aq.; Bry. Caustj Crot, t.; Echin.;
Elaeis; Hydrocot.; .s Lyc.; 3 Petrol; ‘Phos.; ; Ran. b.; ‘Rhus nr
Sars.; Sil.; Still.; Sul.; Thiosin.; Thyr.

SCROFULODERMA — Calc. iod.; Cale. s.; Petrol.; Scroful.;
Ther. See Separate Diseases. >

SEBACEOUS CYSTS (wen) — Bar. ¢.; Bens. ac.; Brom.; Cale.
sil.; Con.; Graph.; Hep. 3 Kali br.; Kali iod.; Nit. ac.; Phyt.;
Thuya. See § calp ( ad).

SEBORRHCA — Am. m.; “arse; .; Bry.; Bufo; Cale. ¢.; Cinch ;
Graph.; Iod.; Kali br.; Kah c.; Kali 8.3 byes Mere. s.;
Mez.: Nat. m., Phos.; Plumb, m.; Psor.; Raph; Rhus t.;
Sars.; Selen, Sep.; Staph.; Sul: Rnuya; Vinea. See Scalp

(Head).

SENSIBILITY OF SKIN — Diminished, or lost (analgesia,
anesthesia): <Acet. ac; Acon.; Ars.: Aur: Bufo; Can,
ind.; Carbon. os.; Carbon. 8.; Elaeis; Hyos.; Jon; Kali
br.; *Merc.; Nuzx v.; Plumb m., Pop. c.; Sec; Zinc. m.

Sensibili of skin increased to atmospheric changes —
Hep.; Kali c.; Psor.; Sul.
SP. 73 — Blues Ars.: Led.; Sul. ac.
brown — Bae; Card. m.; Con.; Iod.; Phos.; Sep.;

Spee Gircumscribed pizmentation followin eczematous .in-
“flammation —Berb. v.; wp. Lye; Sted; Mere. d.;
erc.; Nit. ac.; Sil; Say “Hei .
THE SKIN 1013

Spots, copper-colored — Carbo av.; Carbo v, Coral., Syph

Spots, livid -- Agave; -fl., Baft.; Bothrops; Morph.; Ox.
ac.: Sec; Sul. ac.

Spots, red — Agar.; Rell.; Cale c.; Con.:; Kali ¢; Sul;
Veronal.

Spots, white — Graph.; Sul

Spots, yellow — Nat. p.; Phos ; Plumb. m ; Sep; Sul.

Spots, yellow turning green —- Con.

STROPHULUS (tooth rash) — Apis; Bor; Cale. ¢.; Cham;
Cic ; Led.; Rhus t.; Spiranth , Sumb.

SUDAMINZ --- Am. m.; Bry.; Uit.

SYCOSIS (barber's itch) --- Anthrok ; Ant. t.; Ars.; Aur. mj
Cale, c.; Cale. s; Chrysar ; Ctc., Cinnab ; Coce.; Cypres-
sus; Graph.; Kali bich., Kali m; Lye, Med.; Merc. pr.
rub.; Nat. s.; Nit ac.; Petrol ; Plant; Plat., Sab.; Sep.;
Sil.; Staph,., Stront. c.; Sul: Sul tod.; Tellur., Thuya.

SYPHILIDZ — See Syphilis (Male Sexual System).

TINEA FAVOSA —favus:  Agar.; Ars. 10d ; Brom.; Cale. ¢.;
Dulc ; Graph.; Hep; Jugl. r, Kah « , Lappa; Lyc.; Med.;
Mesz.; Oleand.; Phos.; Sep., Sulphur, ac; Sul.; Ustil.;
Vinca; Viola tr. See Scalp (Head).

TINEA VERSICOLOR (chromophytosis)—Bac ; Chrysar.; Mez.;
Nat. ars.; Sep., Sul.; TeNur.

TRICHOPHYTOSIS — ringworm: Ant. c.; Ant. t.; 4rs.; Bac.;
Cale c.; Chrysar.; Graph.; Hep.; Jugl. c.; Jugl. r.; Kali
8.; Lyc.; Mez.; Psor.; Rhus t.; Semperv. t.; Sep.; Sul.;
Tellur.; Tub.; Viola tr. See Scalp (Head).

Trichophytogis, in intersecting rings over great portion of
body; fever; great constitutional disturbances -— Tellur.
Trichophytosis, in isolated spots on upper part of body—

Se
ULCERS -— Anac. oc: Ananth ; Anthrac.; Arn.; Ars.; Aster.;
Bals. r.3 Bell; Cale. c., Cale. p.; Cale. sel; Cale. s.;
Calend.; Carb. ac.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Carbon. 8 ; Caust.;
Cistus; Clem.; Commocl.; Con.; Crot.; Cupr. ars.; Echin.;
Fluor. ac.; Galium ap.; Geran., Graph.; Ham.; Hep.;
Hippoz.; Hyar., Iod.; Jugl. r.; Kali ars.; Kali bsch.; Kali
iod Lach.; Mere. c.; Merc. s.; Mes.; Nat. s.; Nat. ac;
Paeoma; Petrol.; Phos, ac.; Phos.; Phyt.; Psor.; Radium;
an. ac.; Scrophul; Sep.; Sil; Sul. ac.; Sul; Syph.;
Tar. c.; Thuya: Trychnos.

Bleeding, easily, when touched — Ars.; Carbo v.; Dulc.;

Hep. Krcos.; Lach.; Merc.; Mez.; Nit. ac.; Petrol.;
hos. .

Burning— Alumen; Anthrac.; Ars.; Carbo v.; Hep.; Kreos.;
Mez.; Thuya.

Cancerous, malignant — Anthiac.: Ars.; Aster.; Carbo an.;
Chimaph.; Clem.; Condur.; Fulgo; Galium ap.; Hydr.;
Kreos.; Lach.; Thuva.

Deep — Asaf. Commocl.; Kali bich.; Kali iod.; Nét. ac.;
‘ar, C.

Eroding, of face — Con.

Fistulous — Calc. fl.; Calend.; Kali iod.; Nit. ac.; Phyt.;
Sil.; Thuya.

Indolent, torpid - Anag.; Aster.; Bar. c.; Cale, fi; Cale.
tod.; Calc. p: Carbo v.; Chel; Con.; Cupr.; Bucal.;
Euphorb.; Fluor. ac.; Fuligo; Geran.; Graph.; Hydr.;
1014 THE SKIN

Kali bich.; Kal to0d.; Lach. j, EYS3 ; Merc. s.; Nit. ac.;
Pzonia; Phyt.; Psor.; Pyr.; Sul.; Syoh.; Sygyz.
Inflamed— Ars., Bell.; Calend.; on an.; Phyt, See Sen-

sitive.

Phagedenic — 4rs.; Caibo v.; Crot.; Kali ars; Mere. c;
Mere. d.; Mere.3 Nit. ac. See Gangrenous. .
Scrofulous —— Calcareas; Cinch.; Hep.; Iodides; Mercuries;

Nit. ac.; Stl; Sul,
Sensitive — Angust. ; Arn.; Ars; Asaf.; Calend.; Dule;
Graph.; Hep.; Lach.; Mez.; Nit. ac. ; Pzoma; Sil.; Tar. c.
Smooth, pale, shallow, on scalp, penis — Merc.
Superficial, flat — Ars.; Coral; Lach.; Nit. ac.; Thuya.
Superficial, serpiginous— Chel.; Merc, c.; Merc. s.; Phos

Syphilitic — Ars 5 3 Asaf.: Carbo v.; Cinnab.; Cistus; Coral ;
Fluor. ac.; Graph.; Hep.; ; lod.; Kali bich.; Koh iod.:
Lach.; Lye; 3 Merc. c.; Merc. i. r.; Merc. s.3 Nit. ac.;
Phyt.; Still.

Traumatic — Arn.; Con.

Varicose — Calc. fl.; Card. m.; Carbo v.; Clem. vit ; Con-
dur; Eucal.; Fluor. ac.; Ham.; YWach.; Phyt.; Psor ; Pyr.;

ec.

Verrucous, on cheek — Ars.

Ulcers, from pemphigus blisters on toes, with ulcerated

borders, moist, red, flat surface — Petiol.

Ulcers, from scarlet fever — Cham.

Ulcers, with base, blue or black — Ars ; Calc. fl.; Carbo an.;
Lach.; Tar. ec.

With base, dry, lardaceous = = - Phyt.

With base, indurated — Alumen; Calc. fl.; Commocl.; Con.

With base, lardaceous, surrounded with dark halo; dirty,
unhealthy look; apt to coalesce — Merc. v.

With base, like raw flesh — Ars.; Merc. s.; Nat. ac.

With discharge, fetid, purulent, sloughing — Ananth.; An.
thrac.; Ars.; ; Asaf; Bapt.; Cale. f.; Calend.; Carb. ac.;
Carbo v.; Con.; Crot. t.3 Echin.; Eucal. ; Fluor ac; ; Gels.,
Geran.; Hep.: Lach.;: Mere. s.; Mez.; Mur ac.; 5 Nit. ac.;
Peonta; Phos. ac.; Psor.: Puls.; Sul.; Thuya.

With discharge, glutinous —- Graph.; Kal bich.

With discharge, ichorous—-- Aster., Carbo v.3 © arb? a.,
Coral.; Mes,

With discharge, ichorous, foul — Anthrac.; Ars.; Asaf.

With discharge, thin, acrid, foul — Ars.; ‘Asaf; Kali iod.;

it, ac.

With edges, deep, regular, “punched out —- Kali bich.; Phos.

With edges, eczematous, copper-colored — Kali bich.

With edges, gangrenous — Anthrac.; Ars.: Carbo v.: Kreos.;
Lach.; Nit. ac.; Sec.; Sul. ac.

With edges, indurated — Calc fl.; Carbo an.; Commocl., Nit.
fe; seonia; Phos. ac.

edges, irregular, undefined — Merc. s.; Nit. ac.

wi edges, raised —-Ars.; Calend.; Nit. ac.; Phos. ac;
Sil. See Granulations.

With glazed, shining appearance - - Lac c.

With granulations, exuberant — Apium = gr.: “A rs, Carbo

Ai Caust., Fluor. ac.; Net. ac.; Petrol; Phos. ac.; Sul;
uya.

1014 THE SKIN

Kali bich.; Kal to0d.; Lach. j, EYS3 ; Merc. s.; Nit. ac.;
Pzonia; Phyt.; Psor.; Pyr.; Sul.; Syoh.; Sygyz.
Inflamed— Ars., Bell.; Calend.; on an.; Phyt, See Sen-

sitive.

Phagedenic — 4rs.; Caibo v.; Crot.; Kali ars; Mere. c;
Mere. d.; Mere.3 Nit. ac. See Gangrenous. .
Scrofulous —— Calcareas; Cinch.; Hep.; Iodides; Mercuries;

Nit. ac.; Stl; Sul,
Sensitive — Angust. ; Arn.; Ars; Asaf.; Calend.; Dule;
Graph.; Hep.; Lach.; Mez.; Nit. ac. ; Pzoma; Sil.; Tar. c.
Smooth, pale, shallow, on scalp, penis — Merc.
Superficial, flat — Ars.; Coral; Lach.; Nit. ac.; Thuya.
Superficial, serpiginous— Chel.; Merc, c.; Merc. s.; Phos

Syphilitic — Ars 5 3 Asaf.: Carbo v.; Cinnab.; Cistus; Coral ;
Fluor. ac.; Graph.; Hep.; ; lod.; Kali bich.; Koh iod.:
Lach.; Lye; 3 Merc. c.; Merc. i. r.; Merc. s.3 Nit. ac.;
Phyt.; Still.

Traumatic — Arn.; Con.

Varicose — Calc. fl.; Card. m.; Carbo v.; Clem. vit ; Con-
dur; Eucal.; Fluor. ac.; Ham.; YWach.; Phyt.; Psor ; Pyr.;

ec.

Verrucous, on cheek — Ars.

Ulcers, from pemphigus blisters on toes, with ulcerated

borders, moist, red, flat surface — Petiol.

Ulcers, from scarlet fever — Cham.

Ulcers, with base, blue or black — Ars ; Calc. fl.; Carbo an.;
Lach.; Tar. ec.

With base, dry, lardaceous = = - Phyt.

With base, indurated — Alumen; Calc. fl.; Commocl.; Con.

With base, lardaceous, surrounded with dark halo; dirty,
unhealthy look; apt to coalesce — Merc. v.

With base, like raw flesh — Ars.; Merc. s.; Nat. ac.

With discharge, fetid, purulent, sloughing — Ananth.; An.
thrac.; Ars.; ; Asaf; Bapt.; Cale. f.; Calend.; Carb. ac.;
Carbo v.; Con.; Crot. t.3 Echin.; Eucal. ; Fluor ac; ; Gels.,
Geran.; Hep.: Lach.;: Mere. s.; Mez.; Mur ac.; 5 Nit. ac.;
Peonta; Phos. ac.; Psor.: Puls.; Sul.; Thuya.

With discharge, glutinous —- Graph.; Kal bich.

With discharge, ichorous—-- Aster., Carbo v.3 © arb? a.,
Coral.; Mes,

With discharge, ichorous, foul — Anthrac.; Ars.; Asaf.

With discharge, thin, acrid, foul — Ars.; ‘Asaf; Kali iod.;

it, ac.

With edges, deep, regular, “punched out —- Kali bich.; Phos.

With edges, eczematous, copper-colored — Kali bich.

With edges, gangrenous — Anthrac.; Ars.: Carbo v.: Kreos.;
Lach.; Nit. ac.; Sec.; Sul. ac.

With edges, indurated — Calc fl.; Carbo an.; Commocl., Nit.
fe; seonia; Phos. ac.

edges, irregular, undefined — Merc. s.; Nit. ac.

wi edges, raised —-Ars.; Calend.; Nit. ac.; Phos. ac;
Sil. See Granulations.

With glazed, shining appearance - - Lac c.

With granulations, exuberant — Apium = gr.: “A rs, Carbo

Ai Caust., Fluor. ac.; Net. ac.; Petrol; Phos. ac.; Sul;
uya.

THE SKIN 1015

With itching — Mez.; Phos. ac.; Sil.

Without pain or redness; uneven, jagged base, dirty pus
—_— os, ac

With pain, in small spot, lightning-like —- Fluor. ac

With pain, splinter-like -- Hiep: Nit. ac. |

With pimples surrounding it — Grind.; Hep ; Tach . Mere s.

With small ulcers, surrounding it — Phos.; Sil. '

With stupor, low delirium, prostration -— Bapt.

With vesicles, surrounding it; red areole-— Fluor, ac ; Hep.;

es.

UNHEALTHY SKIN -- Every scratch festers, or beals with
difficulty Bor, Bufo. Cale cz Cale. 8; Calend,; Car-
bon. s3 Cham; Graph, Hep, Hyd, Lye; Alerc. s.°
Fetrol., Pap m, yr, Sd, Sul

URTICARIA (hives, nettle rash) ---.Acon.;  Anac, Anthrok.;
adnt.oc., dnuipywe., Apum gp, Apis, ais, dAsiac, Berb.
ves Pombya , Bow, Cale ¢. Canpfln, Ching s  Chlurgl,
Cim., Cina, Condut ; Con; Cop, Crot tt.) Dule , Fagop :
Fragar., UWep, omar. fly Jchth , Ignj ftpee, Beh ¢3
Kah chlor, Medusa Nat mi: Nat. p., Nit ac, Nux v.;
Petrol: Puis., Rhus t.. Rhus vi Robm; Same: Sep;
Stann.; Stroph.; Strych. p; Sul, Tereb;  ‘Tetiadyn ;
Trost., Urt.; Ustil.; Vespa

Chronic —clnac., ent, _,; Ant.py: ; Ars., Astac.; Bow., Cale
e3 Chloral, Condw 3; Cop., Dule.; Wop.; Tehth.; Lae 5
Nat. m: Rhus t, Sep; Stroph.; Sul, Urt.

Nodosa — Bov.; Urt

Tuberosa — .dnac., Tolet liu

CAUSE -- CONCOMITANTS — From emotion: Anac;_ Bov.;
Ign.; Kali br. .

From exertion, excessive — Coun., Nat. m.

From exposure — Chloral.; Dui.; Rhus t.

From gastric derangement —Ant. c.; Ars.; Carbo v.; Cop.;
Dule.; Nux v; Puls ; Robin; Tricst. , .
From menstrua! conditions— Bell, Cun; Duh., Kali c;

Mag. c; Puls.; Ustil,

From shellfish, roe —- Camph. _

From suppressed malaria — Elat.

From sweat — Apis.

With catarrb — Cepa; Dulce. .

With chill, of intermittents — Ign.; Nat. m

With constipation, fever —-- Cop.

With croup, alternating — Ars

With diarrhea — Apis; Bov.; Puls.

With edema — 4pis, Vespa.

With erosion, on toes — Sul.

With liver disturbance — Astac

With petechial disturbance, or erysipelatous eruption —

Fragar.
With rheumatic lameness, palpitation, diarrhea — Bov.; Dulc.
With rheumatism, alternating — Urt.
With sequelw, from suppressed hives — Apis; Urt.
With sudden coming and going — Antipy:.
With sudden, voilent onset; syncope — Camph.
MODALITIES —-AGGRAVATIONS: At climacteric: Morph.:

Ustil.
1016 THE SKIN

At menstrual period — Cim.; Duic.; Kali c.; Mag. c
At night — Ant. c.; Ars.

From bathing, walking in A. M. — Bov.

From cold — Ars.; Dulc.; Rhus t.; Rumex; Sep.
From exertion — Psor.

From fruit, pork, buckwheat — Puls.

From open air -— Nit ac.; Sep.

From spirituous drinks — Chloral.

From warmth -- Apis; Dulc.; Kali c.; Lyc.; Sul.
In children — Cop.

Periodically, every year — Urt.

AMELIORATIONS — From cold water: Apis.

From hot drinks — Chloral.
From open air — Calc. c.
From warmth -~ Ars.; Chlorsl; Sep.

VACCINIA — Acon.; Ant. t.; Apis; Bell.; Metc. s.; | Phos.
Sil; Sul; Thuya; Vac.

VERUCCA (warts) — Acet. ac.; Am c; Anac. oc.: Anag.
Ant. c., Ant. t.; Ars. bro; Aur. m. nn; Bar. «, Cak. c.
Castorea; Cast. eq.; Caust.; Chrom. oxy.; Cinnab ; Dulce.
Ferr. picr.; Kah m.; Kali perm.; Lye.; Mag. s.; Nat. c.
Nat. m.; Nat $.; Nit. ac., Ran. b.; Semperv. t.; Sep.
Sil; Staph.; Sul.; Sul. ac.; Thuva, X-ray.

Bleed easily — Cinnab

Bleed easily, jagged, large — Caust.; Nit. ac.

Condylomata, fig warts — Cale c., Ciumnab, Euphras; Kal
yod.; Tae + Med.; Merc. ¢; Mere. s.; Nat. s.5 Nit. ac.
Phos ac.; Sal.; Sep.; Sil; Staph; Thuya.

Cracked, ragged, with furfuraceous areola — Lyc.

Horny, broad — Rhus t.

Large, smooth, fleshy — Dulc.

Lupoid — Ferr. picr.

Moist, itching, flat, broad — Thuya.

Painful, hard, stiff, shining — Si!

Painful, sticking — Nit. ac.; Staph.; Thuya.

Pedunculated — Caust.; lyc.; Nit. ac., Sab.; Staph ; Thuya.

Situated, on body, general — Nat. s ; Sep.

Situated, on breast — Castor.

Situated, on face, hands——Calc c.; Carbo an.; Dulc.; Kali c.

Situated, on forehead —- Castotea.

Situated, on genito-anal surface — Nit. ac.; Thuya.

Situated, on hands — Anac.: Bufo; Ferr. magnet.; Kali m.;
Lach.; Nat. c.; Nat. m ; Rhus t.

Situated, on neck, arms, hands, soft, smooth — Ant. c.

Situated, on nose, finger tips, eye brows — Caust.

Situated, on perpuce — Cinnab.; Phos. ac.; Sab.

Small, all over body — Caust.
oth — Calc. c.; Ruta.

LOW — felon, panaritium: Alum; Am. c.;  Anthrac.;
ell; Bry.: Bufo; Cale, fl.; Cale. s.; Calend.; Cepa;

WCrot.; Diosc.; Fluor. ac.; Hep.; Hyper.; Ued.; Mere. s.;
Myrist. seb.; Nat. s.: Ol, myrist.; Phos.; Sil; Tar. c.

Malignant tendency — Anthrac., Ars.; Carb. ac.; Lach.

Predisposition to — Diosc.; Hep.

Recurrence — Sil.

Traumatic —- Led.
FEVER

CHILLINESS, coldness— Abies c.; dcon.; FEth.; Agar.; Alum.
Ant. t.; Apis; Aran.; Arn.; Ars.; Ars. iod.; Asar..
Astac.; Bapt.; Berb. v.; Bry.; Cale. ars.; Calc. c.; Cale.
sth; Calend.; Camph.; Canth.; Caps.; Carbo v.; Castor.
Caust.; Ced.; Camex, Cocaine; Colch.; Corn. fl.;_ Crat.
Echin.; Eup. purp.: Ferr. m.;_Gels.;_Graph.; Helod.
Hep ; Ipec.; Jatropha; Kal c.; Laur., Led.; Lob. purp.
Mag. p.: Menyanth, Merc. s.,_Morph.; Nat. m.; Op.
Phos.; Pimpin.; Plat.; Puls.; Pyrus; Radium; Sabad.
Sec.; Sil.; Sul; Tab; Tela ar.; Val.; Ver. a.

Chilliness, after epileptic fit — Cupr. m.

Chilliness, in abdomen, legs — Menyarth.

Chilliness, in arms — Raph.

Chilliness, in back and feet — Bell.; Canth.

Chilliness, in back, between shoulder blades -- .4m. m.; Cas-
tor.; Lachnanth.; Pyr.; Tub.

Chilliness, in back, hips, to legs — Ham.

Chilliness, in body and feet, head and face hot — .\rn.

Chilliness, in body, with face and breath hot — Cham

Chilliness, in bones, extremities; severe, general -- Pyr.

Chilliness, in chest, on walking in open air — Ran. b.

Chilliness, in ‘forearrns -— Carbo v.; Med.

Chilliness, in hands —- Dros.

Chilliness, in hands and back — Cact.

Chilliness, in hands, back, feet and knees — Hienz. ac.; Chin.
ars

Chilliness, in hands, body warm -~- Tab.

Chilliness, in head and limbs — Calc. c.; Fert. im.

Chilliness, in knees -— Carbo v., Cimex; Phos

Chilliness, in lower limbs — Calc. c.; Cocc.

Chilliness, in lumbar region - Agar.

Chilliness, in single parts - 4sar.; Calad.; Calc. c.; Kali
bich.; Paris; Puls.

Chilliness, in waves, along spine —- 4bies_ c.; Acon.; Asc.
drs.; Bolet.; Calend; Conv.; Dulc.; Echin.; Frax. am.
Gels 5 Il-lod ; Mag p.; Med.; Raph.; Strych.; Tub.

we, wl,

Chilliness, with aching in shoulders, joints, small of back
yawning, stretching — Bolct.

Chilliness, with catarrh — Merc. s.

Chilliness, with cough, dry, fatiguing --~ Rhus t

Chilliness, with deficient, animal heat — Alum.; Bar. c.
Calc. c.; Cale. p.; Calc. stl.; Led.; Lye; Psor.; Sep.; Sil.
Staph.; Thuya.

Chilliness, with desire to uncover abdomen — Tab.

_ Chillinéss, with evening pains of whatever kind; in warm
room — Puls.

Chilliness, with face, head, palnfs hot — Ferr. m.

Chillineas, with face hot — Dros.; Ign. ,

Chilliness, with flatulent colic, nausea, vertigo, hot skin,
sweat, heat of head — Cocc.
1018 FEVER

Chilliness, with headache — Conv

Chilliness, with headache, extending to parietal region, red
eyes — Ced.

Chilliness, with heat and desire to stretch — Rhus t.

Chilliness, with heat, alternately — Abies n.; Apis; 4rs.;
Bapt.; Bell.; Bolet.; Bry.; Cham.; Dig.; Laur.; Mag. 8.3
Mere. c.; Merc. s. +, Phyt.; Puls ; Solan. n.; Solid.

Chilliness, with ill humor — C: aps.

Chilliness, with nausea — Echin.; [pec

Chilline with nervousness -—— 4sar.; Cim.; Croc; Gels.;
Gossy yp Nat. m.

Chilliness, with no relief from warmth— Aran.; Cadm_ s.;
Chin. 8; Dros.; Taur.; Mag. p.; Alerc. s., Pulex; Puls.;

Sil.

Chilliness, with pain — Coff.; Dule.; Puls.; Sil

Chilliness, with pain, racking in limbs, anxious restlessness
— Ars.

Chilliness, with pallor ~- Cocaine.

Chilliness, with pruritus — Mez. ,

Chilliness, with rheumatic pain, and soreness — Bapt.;
Homar.; Rhus t.

Chilliness, with septic symptoms —- /’vr.; Tar. c

Chilliness, with suffocative feeling —- Arg n.; Mag.

Chiinests with thirst-- Acon.; Ars.; Carbo v ; . Conv.; ; ‘Dole; 3

Sec.; Sep.; Ver. a.

Chilliness, with thirstlessness— Dros.; Gels.; Nux m.; Puls

Chilliness, worse after anger — Anr.: Biv. Cham

Chilliness, worse after dinner — Mag. p.

Chilliness, worse after drinking — Caps.

Chilliness, worse after eating A. M. — Puls.

Chilliness, worse from dampness, rain, not relieved by
warmth —— Aian.

Chilliness, worse from least exposure, “air goes right
through” — -Jcon ; | Agar.; Agraph.; Am. phos.: Ars.;
Ars. iod ; Astac.; Cale. c.; Calc. p.; Calend.; Canchal.;
Cmeh.; Hep. 3; Kah c.; Mere. ¢.; Merc. s.: Mez.; Nux
v.; Psor.; Sep.; S2l.; Tub.

Chilliness, worse from least motion -- Ars.; Nux v.; Spig.

Chilliness, worse from touch — Acon.: Kal: c.; Sil.; Spig.

Chitinees woree. from warmth, covering — Arg. n.; *Camph.
Med Sanic.; Sec.; Sul.
Chiillnie, worse in morning — Calc. c.
Chilliness, worse toward Sate ite night — Acon.; Alum.
.; Ars; Ced.; Dulc.; ag Si Mag. p.; Menthol

iis wij OL j. s.: Phos.; Puls.;

FEBR HEAT Abies n.; Acet. ac.; P com; «5 ise; 28th.
A rast. Allium 5; Ant ¢.; Arn; Rapt; Bell.
Bee": Cafop.; ; Camph. ; Canth.; Carbo v.; Cham; Chin

ars.; Cr m.; Cinch.; Dule.; Eucal.; Fert. p., Gels.; Glon.

The j Tod. : Mere; Millef.; Marph.; Nit. ac.; ux mM.
ux v.; Op.; Phyt.; Pulex: Puls.; Rhus t.; Samb.; Sep.
gies Spirxa; Spiranth.,; Stram;’ Tereb.; *Thuya;, Val.
er.

Febrile heat, ascends from pelvic organs — Sep.
Febrile heat, from anger — Cham.; Sep.
FEVER 1019

Febrile heat, in evening; falls asiecp during, awakens when
it ceases — Calad.

Febrile heat, in flashes, ebullitions — Acet ac.; Amyl; ; An-
tipyr.; drs.; Ars. 10d.; Bolet.; Cale, c 3 Carls.; Chimaph. ;
Dig., Enxech.; Ferr. red ; Frax. am.; Hep; Ign, ndigo;
Jod; Jabor.; Kal c.; Lach; Lyc.; 3. Med.; Merc. 6.;
Niecol.; Petrol; Phos; Puls.; Sang.; Sep.; Sul; Sul. ue!
Urt.; Val; Viscum; Yohimb.

Febrile heat, in lower part of back, hip, thighs — Berb. v.

Febrile heat, in palms of hands — Chcnop. gl.

Febrile heat, in soles of feet — Canth.

Febrile heat, in spots — Agar.; Apis.

Febrile heat, with chill predominant —- Dry.

Febrile heat, with colic — Ver. a.

Febrile heat, with decline towards A. M., without sweat

els

Febrile heat, with delirium; headache -—- Agar.; Bell.

Febrile heat, with drowsy stupefaction; agonized tossing
about, in search of a cool place; must be uncovered;
vomiting, diarrhoea; convulsions -— Op.

Febrile heat, with dryness, durin ng sleep or on falling
asleep; deep, dry, cough - - Sam

Febrile heat, with dryness, no sweat — Alum. ; Nux m.

Febrile heat, with excitement, nervous agitation — dAcon.;
Tela ar.

Febrile heat, with external coldness — Ars.: Canth. -

Febrile heat, with faintness, sweat — Dig.; Sep.; Sul.; Sul.
ac.

Febrile heat, with flatulence, bowel movement — - Radium.

Febrile heat, with headache -— Astac.

Febrile heat, with hot face, back chilly, feet cold — Puls

Febrile heat, with hot face, cold hands and feet — Stram.

Febrile heat, with hot face, cool body, asthenic states
— Arn.;

Febrile heat, vith hot face, unquenchable thirst, taste of
bile, nausea, anxiety, restlessness, dry tongue; after
anger — Cham.

Febrile heat, with hunger, for days preceding — Staph. |

Febrile heat, with itching eyes, tearing in limbs, numbnéss
of body, keadache — Ced.

Febrile . peat. with lassitude, in afternoon; throbs ‘all over’

Febrile heat, with night sweats — Ilep.

Febrile heat, with palpitation, precordial anguish-~ Calc c.

Febrile heat, with prostration -- Ant. t.;,.Chim ars.; Phyt.

Febrile heat, with pulsations — Beil. ; Lib t ; Puls.; Thuya.

Febrile heat, with pulsations, and distended veina — Puls.;

uya.

Febrile beat, with red spot on left, cheek, — Acet

Febrile heat, with restlessnes, cheek red, apathy — — lod.

Febrile heat, with restless sleep _

Febrile heat, with skin dry, hot; passant ‘excitement; an-
guish, restlessness, tossing about — Acun.
1020 FEVER

Febrile heat, with skin dry, pungent; arteria] excitement;
distended, superficial vessela — Bell.

Febrile heat, with slow, nervous, insidious course — Cocc.
Febrile heat, with soreness of body— rv., Franc; Phyt.;
us t.

Febrile heat, with spasms — Acetan : Kell.

Febrile heat, with stretching of limbs — Rhus t

Febrile heat, with sudden onset; dry, burning skin; rapid,
small, wiry pulse — Pyr.

Febrile heat, with tendency to cover up -—Ign.; Nux
w., Samb.; Stann.

Febrile heat, with thirst — Acon., Ant. c.; Bry.; Laur.;
Puls ; Tereb.

Febrile heat, with thirstlessness -.lcct. ac., .Eth.; Bell.;
Gels.; Jgv.; Mur. ac.; Nux m.; Puls.

Febrile heat, worse at night — Acon.; ‘Esc.; Ant. c.; A1s.;
Rell.; Cale. ¢.; Gels.; Hep.; Kah s.; Mag. c.; Petrol.;
Phos.; Puls.; Sil.; Stann.; Urt.

Febrile heat, worse during menses — Calc. c.: Thuya.

Febrile heat, worse during sleep -— Calad.; Samb.

Febrile heat, worse from motion, then chilly — Nux v.
Febrile heat, worse from uncovering — Merc. s.; Nusx wv;
Stront.

Febrile heat, worse in afternoon —- Azadir.; Beil ¢ Fear.

Febrile heat, worse in morning in bed -- Kali c.

Febrile heat, worse on awaking —- Laur.

Febrile heat, worse when sitting, walking in open air — Sep.

SWEAT: TYPE — Bloody: Crot; Tach; Lyc; Nux m.

ux v.

Cold, clammy Abies c.3Acct. ac.; #ith.; Amyl; Ant. ars.
Ant. t.; Ars.; Benz. ac.; Cact.; Calc. c.; Cale. p.; Camph.
Canth ; Carbo «7; Cinch.; Corn. fl.; Cupr. ars.; Dig.
Dulc ; Blapss Euphorb. a: Formal.; Ign.:; Ipec.; Lach.
Kaur; A ye.: Mere. c.; Mere, cy.: Merc. s.

.S Tupute 3 Sanic.; Sec., Tab.; ‘Tela ar.; Tereb.
pee a, Ver. v.

Greasy, oily —- Bry.; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Lupul.; Mag. c.
Mere s.

Hot -— FBge. Carbo v.; Cham.; Chenop. gl.; Lach.; Op.
Tilia; Ver. v.

LOCALIZED, in general — - Bry.; Cale. c., Cinch.: Fluor. ac.;
Hep.; FPetrol.; Phos.; Plectranth. ; Puls.; Selen.; Stl;

Sul. i «

Local im anterior part of body — Selen.

Locatfged, in axille -- Nit. ac.; Oom.; Petrol.; Sep.; Sil See
I otor System.

Lec ) on chest — Calc. c.; Cocc.; Euphras.; Phos.;

Stan; Serych.
Localigii, on covered parts — Rell
Localized, on extremities, upper right — Formal.
Lecatfued, on face, forehead — Acct. ac.; Benz. ac.; Cale.
e.; Cina; Euphorb. 4.5. Phos.; Rheum; Sinap.; Sul.; Val.;
er. @.
FEVER 1021

Localized, on feet — Cale c.; Graph, Lact. ac; Mere 9.3
Petrol, Phos; Sep; Sil See Feet (locomotor System).

Localized, on genitals Pitiol., Phos. ac, Vhuya. See
Male Sexual System.

Localized, on hands Cale c¢.;) Cina; Cou.; Fluor. ac:
Nit ac.; Phos.; Sil. Sce Locomotor System

Localized, on head, nape of neck — [icll.; Cal oc; Phos;
Puls.; | Rheum; Samb., Sanic.: Siu; Stann., Stuych ;
Ver. a.

Localized, on lower body —- Croc ; Ran. ac; San.

Localized, on part lain on --- Acon

Localized, on parts in contact with each other - - Niccol. s,

Localized, on posterior part of body Sep

Localized, on side not reclined upon Benz ; Thuya.

Localized, eon uncovered parts - -‘Ihuva

Localized, on upper body -~.\zadu., Cale. c.; Cham.; Kali
c.; Nux v.; Sil.

Localized, unilaterally -- Jabo: , Nux v.; Puls

ODOR —- Fetid, offensive: .\rt. v. Dapt., But. ac; Cale. ¢;:
Carbo an; Cimea; Con; Daphne; Fluor ac.; Hep.; Kali
and, Lve s Merc s.; Nit. ac; Ol an., Osm.; Petrol. ;
Phos ; Psor.; Puls; Sep.; Sil., Solan. t.; Stann.; Staph.;
Sul, Tarus, Thuya; Variol. See Bromidrosis (Skin).

Odor, musty, mouldy -—- Stann.

Odor, sour, acid — Arn; Bry.; Cule. ¢.; Cham.; Fluor. ac.
Graph.; Hep.; Kreos; Lac d:; Mag_c.; Mere; Nux v.;
Pyr.; Rheum; Robin.; Sanic.; Sep.; Sil; Sul; Sul. ac.

Qdor, sweetish — (alad., Thuya.

Odor, urinous --- Eryug aq.; Nit. ac

PROFUSE sweat (hyperidrosis) -— 4cet. ac.; Acon.; Agse.
Agaricin; Am. acet.; Ant. t.; Ars.; Ars. iod.; Bapt.; Bell.
Bolut.; Biy.; Cah. c., Canth.; Cham; Cinch.; Coec
Con.; Croc; Eser, Ferr. tod.; Ferre om; Fluor. ac
Graph.; Hep.; Hyper.; Tod; Jabor.; Kali c.; Wact. ac.
Merc. s.; Morph; Nit. ac; Nux v.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Phos.
Piloc., Polyp.:. Psor.; Puls; Sal. ac.; Samb.; Sanic.
Selen.; Set., Su, Stann.; Sul.; Sul. ac.; Thuya; Tilia;
Ver, a; Zine, m.

Profuse, debilitating (colliquative)—- Acct. ac.; | Camph.;
Carbo an; Carbo_v; Castor.; Chrysanth.; Cinch.; Eup.
perf.; Ferr, mj; Gels; Merc. v.; Nit. ac.; Nitrum; Op.;
Phell.: Phos. ac.; Phos.; Pyr.; Rhus gl.; Salvia; Samb.;
Stann.; Sul. ac.

CANTY — Apis; Conv.; Lach ; Mus om.

s Viscid —Abhes c.; Fluor. ac.; Hep.; Lyc.; Merc. s.; Phallus;

Phos,
Yellow, staining — Ars ; Carbo an.; Lach.; Lyc.; Merc. s
OCCURRENCE — After acute diseases: Psor.
After eating, drinking — Carbo v.; Cham.; Kali c.
At end of fever, or only at beginning of sleep — Ars.
During climacteric — Hep.; Jabor.; Tilta. abe Female Sex-
ual System.
ri xertion, motion — Asar.; But, ac.; Calc. ¢c.; Carbo
During Cinch. ; ‘Eup. urp.; Bupion; Gray 5 Hep.; Kali c.;
Lye; Merc. c.; Merc. s.; Nat. c; Nat. m; Phos: ac.;
Psor.; Sep.; Sil.; Sul.
1022 FEVER

During morning, day time — Bry.: Carbo an; Carbo v
Hep.; Lyc.; Nat. m.; Nux v.; Phos.; Sep.; Sil; Sul.
Zine. m.

During morning, early — Stann.

During sleep (night sweats) — Acet. ac.; Agar.;_ Agaricin
Ars, iod; Bar. c; Bell.; Bolet; Calc. c.; Carbo an.
Carbo v.; Cham; Chrysanth.: Cinch; Con.; Corn.
Euphras.; Ferr. p.: Hep.; Jod.; Ipec: Jabor.; Kali c
Kali iod; Lye: Merc. s; Myos.; Nat. tell.; Nit. ac
Nux v; Op.; Petiol.; Phos. ac.; Phos - Phyt.; Picrot.
Piloc ; Pop tr.; Psor: Salma; Samb ; Sanic.; Sep: Sil
Stann: Staph.; Stront. c.; Sul; Taras, Thall.; Thava
Tila; Zine. m.

During waking hours — Con.; Hep ; Merc ; Phos. ac.; Phos.
Namo,

From nervous depression, phthisis; convalescence, from
acute disease — Jabor

From nervous shock; sitting quietly — Anac.; Sep.

Sweat, affords no relief, or aggravates symptoms - Ant t;
Bell.; Bolet.; Chin. s.; Ferr mj; Formica; Hep.; Merc s.,
Phos ac; Pyr.; Sep.; Stram.

Sweat, affords relief, to symptoms — Acon.; Ars., Calac.;
Cupr. m.; Eup perf.; Frane.; Nat. m.; Psor.: Senega;
Ver a.

TYPE OF FEVER: BILIOUS — Raft.; Biy; Cham., Circh:
Col; Crot; Euonym.; Eu, perf.; Gels; Ipec: Lept.;
Merc c.; Merc. s ; Nux v.; Nyct.; Pod.; Rhus t.

CATHETER —-.4con ; Lamph. ac; Petros

DENGUF -— Acon. Ars: Bell.; | Bry.; Canth.; Cinch: Fup.
herf.; Gels.; Tpec.; Nux v.; Rhus t.; Rhus v.

DYSENTERIC - -Nux v.

ENTERIC — TYPHOID FEVER —- Agar.: Agaricin; ¢!J. fic,
Arg. n.: Ayn.; Ars.: Arum tr.: Bapt; Bell: Bro. Cale
ce: Carbo v.; Cina: Cinch.; Colch.; Crot.: Cupr. ars.;
Echin ; Excal.; Gels.; Glon.; Helleb.; Hvdr.; Hvos.;
Tlyosc. hydrobr.; Jod : Ipec.: Kali p.; Lech.; Laur.: Lye;
Merc. cy.; Merc. s.; Methyl, bl.; Mosch.; Mur. ac.; Nit.
ac.; Nuaom.; Op.; Phos. ac.: Phos.; Pyr.: Rhus t. Selen.;
Stram.; Strych.; Sul. ac.;  Sumb.; Tereb.; Vaccin. myr..
Val.; Ver. a; Xerophyl.; Zine m.

CONCOMITANTS — Biliousness: Bry.; Chel.; Hydr.; Lept.;

ere $3 Nux v.
Carriers; after inoculation with anti-typhoid serum —

rt.

¢ 4 ation — Bry.; Hydr.; Nux v.; Op.

Dee@Pitus — Arn.; Ars.; Bapt.; Carbo v.; Lach.; Mur. ac;
Pyr.; Sec.

Delirium —Agar.; Agaricin; Ars.; Bapt.; Bell.; Can._ind.;
Hyos., Hyvosc. hydrobr.; Lach.; Methyl. bl.; Op.; Phos ;
Rhus t; Stram.; Tereb.: Val.

‘Diarrhoea — Arn.; Ars.; Bapt.; Cupr. ars.; Epilob.; Lach ;
Merc. s.; Phos. ac.; Rhus t.

Diarrheea, involuntary — Apis; rn.; Ars.; Hyos.; Mur. ac.;
Phos. ac.
FEVER 1023

Ecchymoses ~——.4rn.; Ars.; Carbo v.; Mur. ac. :

Epistaxis —- Acon.; Bry., Croc.; Ham.; Ipec.; Meli.; .
pares Tar ‘y roc. ‘am.; Ipec. eli.; Phos

Fever — Ars.; Bapt.; Bell; Gels.; Methyl. bl; Rhus t.;
Stram. .

Gastric symptoms — Bry.; Canth.; Carbo v.; Hydr.; Mere.
s.; Nux v.; Puls.

Headache — Acetan ; Bell.; Bry.; Gels.; Hyos.; Nux ‘v.;
Rhus t.

Hemorrhage — 4lumen, Alum.; Ars.; Bapt.; Carbo v.; Cinch.;
Crot.; Elaps; Hum., Hydrastin. sul.; Ipec.: Kreos.; Lach.;
Millef., Mur, ac.; Nit. ac.; Nux m.; Phos. ac; Sec;
Tereb

Insomnia ~ Bell; Cof., Gels; Hyosc. hyurobr.; Hyos.; Op.;

us t.

Laryngeal affections --- Apis; Merc. c.

Multiple abscesses -— Ars.: Ilep.; Sil.

Myocarditis ---~ Pineal gland ext.

Nervous symptoms, adynamia—~ Agar.; Agaricin; Apis; Ars.;
Bapt.; Bell.; Bry.- Coce.; Colch.; Gels.; Helleb.; Afyos.;
Hyosc. hydrobr.; Ign.; Lach; Lye; Mur. ac.; Phos. ac.;
Phos.; Rhus t.; Stram.; Sumb.; Val.; Zinc. m.

Nervous symptoms, collapse — Ars.; Camph; Carbo v.;
Cinch ; Hyosc. hydrobr.; Laur.; Mur. ac.; Sec; Ver. a.
Peritonitis ~-Ars.; Bell.; Carbo v.; Col.; Mere. c.; Rhus t.;3

‘ereb.

Pneumonia, bronchial symptoms —— Ant ¢.; Ars.; Bell.; Bry. ;
Hyos ; Ipec., Lach.; Phos.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Sang.; Sul.;
Tereb.

Putrescent pneumonia — Ars.; Mur. ac.

Soreness, muscular — 4rn.; Bapt.; Bry.; Gels.; Rhus ¢.

Stage of convalescence — Ars iod ; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Cocc.;
Hydr.; Kali p.; Nux v.; Psor.; Sul.; Tarax.

Tympanites —- Asaf.; Ars.; Bapt.; Cevbo v.; Cinch.; Coee.;
Colch.; Lyc.; Methyl bl.; Muillef.; Mur. ac.; Nuzx m.;
Phos. ac.; Rhus t.; Tereb.

Uleer, corneal — Apis; Ipec.

Urination, profuse —- Gels.; Mur. ac ; Phos. ac. '

Urination, scanty, painful — Apis; Ars.; Canth. am

EXANTHEMATA: ERUPTIVE FEVER: RUBELLA—(rotheln,
German measles): Accn.; Bell.; Cop. See Rubeola
(meaples).

RUBEOLA — MEASLES — Acon.; Ail.; Ant. t.; Ars.; Ars. tod.;
Bell.; Bry.; Camph.; Coff.; Dulc.; Eup. ‘perf.; Euphras. ;
Ferr. p.; Gels.; Ipec.; Kalt bich.; Kali m.; Lach.; Merc.
c.; Mere. pr. rub.; Merc. s.; Op.; Puls; Rhus t.; Scilla;
Spong.; Sticta; Stram.; Sul.; Ver. v.; Viola od.

CONCOMITANTS: Adenitis — Kali bich.; Merc. i. r.

Bronchial and pulmonary symptoms — dnt ti; Bell.; Bry.;
Chel.; Ferr. p.; Ipec.; Kali bich.; Phos.;, Puls.; Rumex;
Sticta; Ver. v.; Viola iod. ;

Bronchial and pulmonary symptoms persisting — Calc, c.;
Tod.; Kali c.; Sil; Sul. Pe * ,

‘
1024 FEVER

Catarrhal symptoms -— Ars.; Cepa; Dulc.; Euphras.; Gels.;
Kali bich.; Merc. s.; Puls.; Sabad.; Sticta.

Cerebral and convulsive symptoms — “th.; Apis; Bell.;
Camph.; Coff.; Cupr. ac.; Stram.; Ver. v.; iola od.;

ine. m.

Cough, croupy --- Acon.; Coff.; Dros.; Euphras.; Gels.; Hep.;
Rall bich.+ Spong.: Sticta, P ?

Diarrhoea — Ars.; Cinch.; Ipec.; Merc. 5; Puls.; Ver. a.

Diphtheritic symptoms — Lach.; Merc. cy.

Epistaxis — Acon.; Kry.; Ipec.

Eye symptoms — Ars.; Euphras.; Kali bich ; Puls.

Gangrene of mouth, vulva — Ars.; Kali chlor.; Jach.

Insomnia, cough — Calc c.; Coff.

Laryngitis — Dros.; Gels.; Kals bich, Viola od.

Low fever, toxemia --- Ail.; .4rs., Bapt; Carbo v.; Crot.
Lach.; Mur. ac.; Rhus t.; Sul.

Malignant types (black or epidemic) — Ail.; <Ars.; Crot.
«ach.

Otalgia, rheumatoid symptoms — Puls.

Rash, retrocedent, or suppressed— Ant. t.; Apis; Bry.
Camph.; Cupr. ac.; lpec.; Lach.; Stram,

Rash, tardy development — Ant. t.; Bry.; Cupr. m.; Dale.
Gels.; lpec.; Stram.; Sul.; Tub.; Ver. v.; Zine. m.

Sequele — Am. c.; Ars.; Bry.; Camph.; Coff.; Cupr. ac.
Kali c.; Merc. c.; Mere. s.; Op.; Puls.; Sang.; Sticta
Sul.; Tub., Zinc. m.

SCARLET FEVER — Acon.: Ail; Am. c.; Apis; Ars.; Arum;
Aswmina; Bell.; Bry.; Cauth.; Carb. ac., Chin. ars.; Com
mocl.; Crot.; Cupr. ac; Cupr. m.; Dub.; Echin.; Eucal.
Gels.; Hep.; Hyos.; Ipec.; Kah chlor.; Kali s.; Dac c.
Lach.; Lyc.; Merc. s.; Merc. 1. 1.3 Mur. ac.; Op.; Phyt.
Rhus t.;' Sang.; Sil; Solan. n.;. Spig.; .Stram.; Tereb.
Zinc, m.

CONCOMITANTS: Adenitis, cervical -— Ail.; Am, c.; Asimina
Bell. 5 Carb, ac.; Crot.; Hep.: Lach.; Merc. i. r.; Merc. s.

us t.

Adenitis, parotid — Am. c.; Rhus t.

Albuminuria and dropsy —- Acon.; Am. c.; Apis; Apoc.
ars., Canth.; Colch.; Dig.; Helleb.; Hep.; Kali_ chlor.
Lach.; Nat. s.; Tered. see Nephritis (Urinary System)

Anginosa (sore throat) — Acon.; Ail.; Apts; Ars.; Asimina
Bar. c.; Beli.; Brom.: Kali perm.; Lac c.; Lach.; Merc.
Mur. acs Phyt.; Rhus t.

Anginosaj*tiiterativa — Am. c.; Apis; Ars.; Arum; Bar. ¢.j
Crot.; Hep.; Lach.; Merc. cy.; Merc. i, ri; Mur ac;
Nit. ac.

Cellulitis -— Ail.; Am. c.: Apis; Lach.; Rhus t.

Chronic tendencies aroused —- Calc. c , Iep., Rhus t.

Diarrhea -— Ail.; Ars.: Asimina; Phos.; Rhus t.

Edema of glottis — Apis; Apium v; Chin. «; Merc. c.

Edema of lungs — Ant. ¢.; Cun. s.; Phos.; Scilla.

Fever — con.; Apis; Asimina; Bapt.; Bell.; Gels.; Rhus t.

Lygpsitis — Brom.; Spong.
1024 FEVER

Catarrhal symptoms -— Ars.; Cepa; Dulc.; Euphras.; Gels.;
Kali bich.; Merc. s.; Puls.; Sabad.; Sticta.

Cerebral and convulsive symptoms — “th.; Apis; Bell.;
Camph.; Coff.; Cupr. ac.; Stram.; Ver. v.; iola od.;

ine. m.

Cough, croupy --- Acon.; Coff.; Dros.; Euphras.; Gels.; Hep.;
Rall bich.+ Spong.: Sticta, P ?

Diarrhoea — Ars.; Cinch.; Ipec.; Merc. 5; Puls.; Ver. a.

Diphtheritic symptoms — Lach.; Merc. cy.

Epistaxis — Acon.; Kry.; Ipec.

Eye symptoms — Ars.; Euphras.; Kali bich ; Puls.

Gangrene of mouth, vulva — Ars.; Kali chlor.; Jach.

Insomnia, cough — Calc c.; Coff.

Laryngitis — Dros.; Gels.; Kals bich, Viola od.

Low fever, toxemia --- Ail.; .4rs., Bapt; Carbo v.; Crot.
Lach.; Mur. ac.; Rhus t.; Sul.

Malignant types (black or epidemic) — Ail.; <Ars.; Crot.
«ach.

Otalgia, rheumatoid symptoms — Puls.

Rash, retrocedent, or suppressed— Ant. t.; Apis; Bry.
Camph.; Cupr. ac.; lpec.; Lach.; Stram,

Rash, tardy development — Ant. t.; Bry.; Cupr. m.; Dale.
Gels.; lpec.; Stram.; Sul.; Tub.; Ver. v.; Zine. m.

Sequele — Am. c.; Ars.; Bry.; Camph.; Coff.; Cupr. ac.
Kali c.; Merc. c.; Mere. s.; Op.; Puls.; Sang.; Sticta
Sul.; Tub., Zinc. m.

SCARLET FEVER — Acon.: Ail; Am. c.; Apis; Ars.; Arum;
Aswmina; Bell.; Bry.; Cauth.; Carb. ac., Chin. ars.; Com
mocl.; Crot.; Cupr. ac; Cupr. m.; Dub.; Echin.; Eucal.
Gels.; Hep.; Hyos.; Ipec.; Kah chlor.; Kali s.; Dac c.
Lach.; Lyc.; Merc. s.; Merc. 1. 1.3 Mur. ac.; Op.; Phyt.
Rhus t.;' Sang.; Sil; Solan. n.;. Spig.; .Stram.; Tereb.
Zinc, m.

CONCOMITANTS: Adenitis, cervical -— Ail.; Am, c.; Asimina
Bell. 5 Carb, ac.; Crot.; Hep.: Lach.; Merc. i. r.; Merc. s.

us t.

Adenitis, parotid — Am. c.; Rhus t.

Albuminuria and dropsy —- Acon.; Am. c.; Apis; Apoc.
ars., Canth.; Colch.; Dig.; Helleb.; Hep.; Kali_ chlor.
Lach.; Nat. s.; Tered. see Nephritis (Urinary System)

Anginosa (sore throat) — Acon.; Ail.; Apts; Ars.; Asimina
Bar. c.; Beli.; Brom.: Kali perm.; Lac c.; Lach.; Merc.
Mur. acs Phyt.; Rhus t.

Anginosaj*tiiterativa — Am. c.; Apis; Ars.; Arum; Bar. ¢.j
Crot.; Hep.; Lach.; Merc. cy.; Merc. i, ri; Mur ac;
Nit. ac.

Cellulitis -— Ail.; Am. c.: Apis; Lach.; Rhus t.

Chronic tendencies aroused —- Calc. c , Iep., Rhus t.

Diarrhea -— Ail.; Ars.: Asimina; Phos.; Rhus t.

Edema of glottis — Apis; Apium v; Chin. «; Merc. c.

Edema of lungs — Ant. ¢.; Cun. s.; Phos.; Scilla.

Fever — con.; Apis; Asimina; Bapt.; Bell.; Gels.; Rhus t.

Lygpsitis — Brom.; Spong.
FEVER 1025

Malignant tendency, adynamia -~ 4il.; Am. c.; Apis: Ars.;
Arum; Bapt.; Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Crot., Cupr. ac.;
Echin.; Hydroc. ac.; Lach.; Merc. cy.; Mur. ac.; Phos.;
Rhus t.; Tab.; Zinc. m.

Miliary type — 4con., Ail.; Am. c.; Apis; Ars.; Bry.; Coff.;
Kat ars.; Lach.; Rhus t mae + Bry.5 Cob;

‘Nervous, convulsive, cerebral symptoms — /Eth.; Ail.; Am.
c.; Apis; Ars; Bell., Camph ; Cupr. ac.; Cupi, m.; Hxo0s.;
Rhus t.; Stram.; Sul.; Zinc. m.

Rash, delayed development — .\pis: Ars.; Bry.; Lach.; Rhus
ts Zine. m.

Rash, hemorrhage in — Crot.; Lach, Mur. ac, Phos.

Rash, livid — 4i/., Lach, Mur ac; Solan. n.

Rash, livid, partial, patchy —~ Ail.

Rash, retrocedent, threatened brain pa:alysis — Ail., Am.c ;
Cupr. ac; Sul., Tub; Zinc. m.

Rash, retrocession of — Am c; 4pis, Ars.; Bry.; Cale. c.;
Camph., Cupr. ac., Cup. m.; Stram.; Sul; Ver. a;
Zinc, m.

Raw, bloody, itching, painful, surfaces; must pick and
bore into them — Arum.

Rheumatic symptoms — Bry.; Rhus t.; Spig.

SEQUELAE: Adenitis — Biom.; Llep.; Lach; Merc. 1. 4;
yt.

Deafness; sore, bleeding nose — Mur. ac.
Desquamation, in large flakes, several times —- Arum.
Ear disorders — Bell ; Carb. ac.; Carbo vj; Gels.; Hep.;
Merc. s.; Sil.; Sul.
Nephritis (post-scarlatinal) — Apis; Ars.; Arum; Canth ;
Helleb See Urinary System.
Nose disorders -~ Arum; Aur. mur.; Mur. ac.; Sul.
Stomatitis ulcerative — Arum; Mur. ac.
Typhoidal symptoms — Ail.; Hyos., Lach.; Rhus i.; Stram.
See Malignant.
Vomiting — Ai.; Asimina; Bell., Cupr. m.
VARICELLA — CHICKENPOX — 4con.; Ant. 1.; -Apis; Bi
Dule., Kah m; Led.; Merc. s.; Rhus d.; Rhus t.; Urt.
VARIOLA — SMALLPOX — Acon.; Am. c.; Anac.; Ant. 1;
Apis, Ars.; Bapt.; Bry.; Carb. ac.; Chin. s.; Cim.; Crot.;
Cupr. ac.; Gels.; Hep.; Hydr.; Kali bich.; Lach.; Merc, s.;
Millef ; Op.:, Phos.; Rhus t.; Sarrac.; Sinap.; Sul.; Thuya;
Variol.; Ver. v.
TYPE — Confluent: Ars.; Wippoz.; Merc. s.; Phos.; Sul.;
ariol.
Discrete: — Ant. t.; Bapt.; Bell.; Gels.; Sul.
Haemorrhagic — Ars.; Crot., Ham.; Lach., Phos.; Nat. nit.;
Sec.; Sul.
Malignant — Am. c.; Ant. t.; Ars.; Bapt.; Carb. ac.; Crot.;
iach., Mur. ac.; Phos, ac.; Phos.; Khus t.; Sec.; Sul.
COMPLICATIONS — Adenitis: Merc. i. r.; Rhus t.
Boils — Hep.; Phos.; Sul.
Collapsic symptoms — 4rs.; Carbo v.; Lach.; Mur. ac.;
Phos ac.

ry.;
1026 FEVER

Delirium — Bell.; Stram.; Ver, v:

Dropsical swellings — Apss; Ars.; Canth,

Fever, initial — Acon.; Ant. t.; Bapt.; Bell.; Gels.; Variol.;

er. uv

Fever, suppurative — Acon.; Bell.; Merce.; Rhus #.

Ophthalmia — Merc. s.; Sul.

Pulmonary symptoms —Acon.; Ant. t.; Bry.; Phos.; Sul.;

yer, Vv.

Repercussion of eruption — Ars.; Camph.; Cupr. m.; Sul.;
inc. mm.

FEBRICULA (simple, continued fever) -— 4con.; Arn.; <Ars.;
Bapft , Bell. ; Bry.; Camph.; Ferr. ~., Gels.; Ipec.; JKal.;
Mare 5; Nux v.; Puls.; Rhus t. ,

GASTRIC. - Acon.; Ant. c.; Ars.; Bapt., Bry ; Cale. ¢ 3 Cinch.;
Ilydi.; Jpec.; Lye; Merc. s.; Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Puis.:
Rhus t.; Santon,

HECTIC “'Abrot ; ; Acet. ac.; Acon.; Arg. m.: Ars.; Ats iod.;
Bals ‘per. Bape. 5 Cale. G5 Cale. iod ; Cale. s.; Carbo v.;
Chin. ars, nch., Ferr. m.; Gels; Hep; Iod.; Lye.;
Med; Merc. s.; Nit. ac.; ol jy. as., Phell.; Phos, ac.;
Phos.; Pyr ; Sang.; Sil.; Stann.; Sul. ;

INFLAMMATORY — Acon.; Bell.; Bry.

INFLUENZA (grippe) -— Acon., Ase : ; Ant. iod.; Ant. t.; Arn.;
Ars.; Ars. iod.; Ais s. 1.3 Asclep t; Bapt, Bell.; Brom.:
Bry., Cale. c.; Camph.; Canchal! ; Carb. ac.; Card. m.;
Caust.; Cepa; Chin. s , Cretch.; Cupr. ars.; Cyel.; Dros.;
Dule.; Tryng.; Eucal., Eup. perf.; Euphorbia; Eupbkras.: :
Gels., Glon.; Glycerin; Gymnocl.; Influenzin; Iod.; Ipec.;
Kahl bich.; Kal cj; Mal ind; Kali 8.3 Tach.; Lob. cer;.
Tob purp., Lye; Mere 5.; Nat. sal.; Nux v.j_ Phos.;
Phyt.; Pod; Psor.; Puls.; Rhus r. ‘Rhus t.; Rumex;
Savad.; Sal ac.; Sang.; Sang, n.; Sarcol. ac.5 Senega;
Suphs Spig; Spong.; Sticta, Sul; Sul. rub.; Triost.;

er, a.

Influenza, debility of — Abrot.; Adon. v.; Ars. tod.; Avena;
Carb. ac; Chin, ars, Chin. s.3 Cinch.: Con; Eup. perf.;
Gels.; Iberis; Tae c.3 Lathyr.s Phos.; Psor.; Sal. ac.;
Sarcol. ac.

Influenza, pain remaining — Lycopers.

INTERMITTENT FEVER (ague, malaria) —Acon.;  Alston.;
Am. om; Am pur, Amyl: Ant. c; Ant. t.3 Apis;
Avan.; Arn.; Ars., Ars. br.; Azadix.; Baja; Ba t.; Bell.;
Rolet.; Bry.; Cact.; Camph. monobr.; Canchal.; Caps.;
Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Cceanoth,; Ced.; Centaur.; Chin.
ars.; Chin. mur; Chin. s; Chionanth.; Cimex; Cina;
Cinch.; Corn. f., Crot; Echin.; Elat.; Eucal.; Eup.
tert: Eup. burp.; Ferr. m.: Feir. p.j Gels; Helianth.;
Tep.; Hydr.; Tun.: Ipec.; 3 Lach; Laur.; Lye.; Malland.;
Menvanth.; Methyl. bl.; Nat. m; Nat. 3; Nitrum; Nur

’o a Pambot ; | Parth.; Pheil.; Phos. ac.;
Pod. PB oty Puls.; Rhus t.; Sabad.; Spig.: Sul; Tarax.;
Tela or.; Rhuyas Urt.: Verb.; 3 Ver. a: Ver. v.

TYPE — Abuse of quinine, cachexia: Am. m.; ; Aran.; Arn.;
Ars, Ars iod.; Calc. ars.; Carbo v.; Ceanoth.; Chelone;
Chin. ars.: Kucal.; Eup. perf.; Ferr. m.} Hydr.; Ipec.;
Zack. “Malar off ; Malland.; Nat. m.; Polymia; Puls.;

ul; Ver a
FEVER 1027

Chronic, inveterate cases — Abies n.; Am. m.; Aran.: Ars.;
Ars, br.; Cale. ars.; Canchal.; Carbo v.; Corn. ¢.; Corn.
fle; Iiclianth.; Ign.; Nat. m., Puls., Pyr.; Quere.; Tela
ar. See Abuse of Quinine.

Congestive —Camph.; Cp.; Ver. a.

Dumb ague — 4rs.; Ced.; Chelone; Chin. s.; Gels.; Ipec.;
Malland.; Nux 7,

Impure cases, in non-malarial regions — Ipec.; Nux v.

Nervo-hysterical persons — Aran.; Cocc.; Ign.; ‘Tar. h.

Pernicious cases-— Ars., Camph; Chin. hydrobr.; Chin 5 ;
Crot.; Fer. a.

Recent cases — Acon.; Aran; Ars.; Chin. s.; Cinch.; Ipec.;

ar. h.
Stages, partial, irregular — Aran; Ars.; Cact.; Carbo v.;
Eup. perf.; Eup. purp.; Zpec.; Nat. m.
Stages, regular, well defined — C/in. s., Cinch.
CHILL: OCCURRENCE — TYPE — Afternoon: 1 P. M. daily:
err. p.
Afternoon, 2 P. M. — Calc. c.; Lach.
Afternoon, 3 P. M. — Apis.
Afternoon, 3-4 P. M. -—Lyc.; Thuya.
Afternoon, 4-8 P. M. — Lyc.
Afternoon, 4 P. M. — sc.
Afternoon, 5 P. M. — Cinch.
Afternoon, late, evening, night -— Aran ; Bolet.; Ced.; Ipec.;
Petrol.; Tar. h.
Anticipating -—— Clin, s.; Cinch.; Nux v.
Forenoon — Cinch.; Jrormal.; Nux v.
Hebdomadal -- Cinch.
Midday — Gcls.
Midnight — Ars.; Nux v.
Mingled, with heat — Ant. t; Apis; Ars.; Cinch; Nux uv;
Jar, h; Ver. a. See Chilliness,
Morning — Chin. 5
Morning, 1-2 A. M. --- Ars.
3 A. M. ~-Thuya
4A.M -—fTurr m
5 A. M. — Cinch
6-7 A. M. — Pod. :
7-9 A. M. — Eup. perf.
9-11 A. M. — Bapt ; Bolet.; Cact.; Mag. s.; Nat. m.; Wyeth,
Periodical — Aran.; Ars., Bolet.; Cact.; Ced.; Chin. s.; Cina;
Cinch.; Eucad; Ipec ,
Periodical, every spring — Carbo v.; Lach.; Sul.
Prolonged — Aran.; Bolet.; Cact.; Canchal.; Caps.; Chin. s.;
Eup purp; Ipec; Menyanth.; Nat. m.; Nux v.; Plumb.;
Pod.; Puls.; Pyr.; Sabad.; Ver. a.; Ver. v.
Quartan — Baja; Chin. $i finches Helleb. .
uotidian — Ars.; Bolet.; Chin. s.; Ign.; Lob. infi.; Nitrum;
Q Nux v.; Plumb.; Tar. h. mm ,
Slight — Ars.; Azar.; Carbo v.; Cina: Cinch.; Eup. perf.;
Eup. purp.; Jpec.
Tertian — Calc. c.; Chin. s.; Cinch.; Ipec.; Lyc.
LOCATION — Abdomen: ~~ Apis; Cale. c.; Menyanth.
Back — Apis; Bolct.; Conv.; Dulc.; Eup. perf.; Eup. purp.;
Gels.; Loch.; Mag. s.; Nat. m.; Pyr. perf Pe PurPes
1028 FEVER

Back, between scapule --Am m, Caps., Pyr.; Sep.

Back, dorsal region —- Kup. peif., Lach.

Back, lumbar region — Kup. perf.; Nat. m.

Breast — Cinch.

Feet — Gels; Lach.; Nat mj; Sabad

Hand, left —— Carbo v.; Nux m.

Nose, tip of -~ Menyanth

Thigh -- Rhus t.; Thuya.

CONCOMITANTS — Anxiety, exhaustion, hypochondriacal
ideas, mental confusion, vertigo, tension of stomach,
no relief from warmth — Nua v.

Anxiety, palpitation, nausea, canine hunger, pressing pain
in hypogastrium, congestive headache, distended pain-
ful veins --- Chin. s.;) Cinch.

Blue lips, nails -— Eup. perf.; Kup. purp.; Menyanth.; Nat.
m; Nur wv; Ver a

Cardiac region, pain in —Cact; ‘ar. h.

Collapsic symptoms; pallor, cold sweat — Ver. a

Cough, dry, teasing -~ Rhus t.

Diarrhea —-Caps.; FElat.; Ver. a

Face and hands bloated — Lyc.

Face red — Feir. m; Ign.; Nux v.

Forehead, cold sweat on -—Ipec ; Ver. a.

Gastric symptoms -..nt c, Arg n.; Ars; Bolet; Can-
chal; Kup. perf; Tpec.; Lye, Nay vw; Puls.

Hands, feel dead —-Apis; Nux v.

Headache - - Bolet.. Chin. 5; Cinch.; Conv.; Eup. perf.;
Eup. purp; Nat. m.; Nux v.

Headache, vertigu, yawning, stretching, general discomfort

Heart symptoms, enterrhagia — Cact.

Hemorrhoidal symptoms — Caps.

Hyperesthesia —-]gn.

Hyperesthesia of spine — Chin 3.

Loquacity -- Pod.

Nausea before chill — Ipec.

No two chills alike — Puls.

Pain in bones, limbs, soreness —— Aran.; Polet.; Canchal ;
Caps.; Chin. 5.3 Cinch.; Eup. perf ; Eup. purp.; Formal.;
Gels , Nat. m; Nvux v.; Phell.

Pains, in joints — Cinch.

Pains, in knees, ankles, wrists, hypogastrium — Pod.

Restlessness —— Ars.; Eup. perf.; Khus t.

Sighing —— Igu.

Thirst — Apis; Ars.; Caps.; Carbo v.; Cina; Cinch.; Conv.;
Dule.; Eup. perf.; Ign.; Nat. m.; Nux yv.; Nyctanth.;
Ver. a; Wyeth.

Thirst, after chill — Ars. .

Thirst, before chill — Chin. s.; Cinch.; Eup. perf; Gels.:

Menyanth.: Nyctanth. c k

Th jessages — Chin. s.; Cimex; Cinch.; Eup. purp.; Gels.;

Wa m. ~

Ve

‘rage, preceding — Cimex.

Vo lous — Eup. perf., Ipec.; Lyc.; Nat. m.; Nux
Ws nth,
Ya x, somnolency, accelerated breathing — Nat. m.

Yawalag, stretching —Ars.; Elat.; Lyc.; Nux v.
FEVER 1029

MODALITIES — Aggravated from acids: Lach.

Aggravated, from drink -- Caps.

Aggravated, from exposure — Nux v

Aggravated, from exposure, lying down — Cimex.

Aggravated, from motion ~- Apis

Aggravated, from warmth— Apis, Canchal.; Chin. s.;
Cinch.; Nux v.

Ameliorated from warmth — Caps.; Ign.

FEVER PAROXYSM — Afternoon, glowing heat, in face,

hands, feet — Azadu

Anxiety, restlessness, lipothymia, oppression — Ars.

Backache --- up. perf.; Nat. m

Chill, intermingled -- .\i1s ; Chin. 53 Cinch.; Nux v.; Tar. h.

Chilliness, after heat of face --Calc c.

Congestion of head, drowsiness, costiveness, rectal and
vesical tenesmus; chilled from uncovering — Nux v.”

Delirium — Ars; Pod.; Sabad,

Desire to be covered --Nux v

Desire to be uncovered —-Jen.; Ipec.

Diarrhea — Ant c.; Ipec, Ver. a.

Dyspnea — Apis. \rs.; Conv.; Ipec.

Face, hot, feet cold — ('nch., Petrol.

Face pale, insomnia -~ Ant. t

Gastric symptoms — Ais, Eup. perf; Jpec ; Nux v.; Puls,

Hands warm, face cold — Cina.

Headache Ap; Ars: Bell; Ced.; Cinch; Eup. pert.;
Nat. m.; Nux v; Wyeth.

Headache, yellowish tongue, nausea, faintness in epigas-
trium, costiveness —- Polyp.

Heat, burning —— Apis; .frs., Caps.; Eup. perf ; Formal ;
Ipec., Tach; Nua 7.

Hunger - Cina; Cinch

Hydroa --Hep.; at. m.; Rhus t.

Lachrymation — Sibad

Loquacity — Pod

Mental confusion — Formal.

Nettle rash —- Apis; IRgn.; Rhus t.

Night -—- Ars,

Pain, colicky — Cina.

Pain, in head, back, limbs — Nux v

Pain in the vertebree, dorsal — Chin. s.

Pain, spasms, paralysis — Ars.

Paroxysms, frequent, transient — Carbo v.

Prolonged heat — Ars.; Bolet.; Ign.

Prostration, fainting, cold sweat — Ver. a.

Pupils immobile, pain in abdomen, sopor, tension through-
out body — Op.

Sighing — Sgn.

Sleepiness — Ant t; Apis: Corn. fl; Gels.; Op.

Thirst — 4rs.; Chin. s; Cinch.; Eup. perf.; Nat. m.; Nux

Thive Nyctanth. ; pe eet an
irstlessness — Apis; Caps.; Chin. s.; Cimex; Cinch.; Ign.;
Nat. m.; Puls.; Sabad.; Wyeth. ito

Tongue clean — Ars.; Cina.

Trembling of limbs, slow pulse — Chin. s.; Op. .

Unconsciousness -— Nat. m.,

Vomiting — Ars.; Cim; Cina; Eup. perf.; Ipec.; Ver. a.

1030 FEVER

Sweat — Ant. c.; Aran.; Azadir.; Bolet.; Chin. s.; Cimex.;

gina Cinch.; Conv.; Eup. perf.; Lyc.; Nat. m.; Nux v.;
; Phos. uc., Ver. a.; Wyeth. See Sweat.

Sweat ‘scanty or absent — 41s, Ars.; Carbo v.; Eup. perf.;

ux ov.

Sweat, with coldness — Plumb.

Sweat, with covering up — Hep.

Sweat, with relief of pains — Nat. m.

Sweat, with sleep — Pod.

Sweat, with thirst — Ars; Chin, s.; Nux v.

APYREXIA — Adynamia, gastro-intestinal pains, sallow face,
dropsical swellings, enlarged liver and spleen, restless-
ness, sleeplessness, spasm, diarrheea, albuminaria — -Ars.

Adynamia hydremia, chlorosis — Cinch.; Puis.

Adynamia, mornin, headache, depression, costiveness,
amenorrhea, enlarged liver, desire for quiet, sallow
face -Nat m

Gastro-enteric symptoms — Cinch.; Hydr.; Ipec.; Nux v.;

uls.

Jaundice — Ars.; Bolet.; Card. m ; Nux v.; Pod.

Nervous symptoms — Gels.

Pains — Lcd.

Relapses from dietetic errors — Ipec

Spleen enlarged — Ars; Ceanoth.; Chin. s.; Cinch.; Ferr.

m.; Nat. m.
Thirst -— Ars.; Cimex; Ign.
Vomiting -— I pec.

Vomiting, abdominal griping, pain in back, loins -—— Ver a.
LOW FEVERS. 4il., Arn.: Ars; Bap -5 Camph.; Cocc.;
Crot; Eup ar: Lach, Mur. ac; Nit. sp d.; Phos. ac.;
Phos.; Pyr; Rhus t.. Tereb; Urt. See Typhus.
MEDITERRANEAN FEVER —- Bapt.; Dry.; Colch.; Mere. s.3
hus t
PUERPERAL FEVER -- Acov.; Pyr.; Ver. a See Female
Sexual System
REFLEX, from local irritation -—Cham.; Cina; Gels.; Ign;
Tpee.; ; Mere.; Nux v.; Sang.; Sul.; Ver. v.
RELAPSING FEVER — 4con.; Ars.; Bept.; Bry.; Cim.; Eucal.;
up, perr; Rhus t.
REMITTENT FEVER —- Acon; Ant ¢.; Ars.; Bell.; Bry.;
im os.; Cina Cinch.: Crot.; Gels.; Hyos.; ; Thec. Merc.
F Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Nyctanth.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Sul.
Remittent, bilious, low — Bry ;: Cc rot; Eup. perf.; Gels.;
Ipec,; Merc. d: Nyctanth.; Pod.
te Remitteg ip children — Ant. c.; Cina; Gels.; Lept.; Puls.;

Santomaays
SEPTIC MES: — Ai! ; Ars.; Crot.; Echin.; Pyr.; Ver. v.
See ja (Generalities)
Sy arte VER -——Acon.; Bapt; Bell.
TRAUM. eT VER —<Acon.; Arn; Ars; Cinch; Lach.
eanluries (Generalities).
FEVER 103!

TYPHUS FEVER— Agar.; Atl.; Apis; Ars., Arum, Bapt.;
Bell.; Bry.; Cale. c.; Camph.; Chin. s.; Cinch; Crot.;
Helleb.; Hyos.; Kreos.; Lach.; Mere. i. r.; Mere. 8.3
Merc. v.; Mur. ac.; Op.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Rhus t.;
Stram.; Ver. a.

Cellulitis, adenitis (salivary) — Bell.; Chin, s.; Merc. i. ¢.

Nervous symptoms -—-Agar.; Bell.; | Hyos.; Wach.; Op.;
Phos. ac.; Phos.; stram.

Toxemia --- Ars.; Mur. ac.; Pyr.; Rhus t. See Typhoid.

URETHRAL FEVER -— Acon.; Ars.; Chin. ars.; Cinch.; Gels.;
Hep.; Lach.; Phos., Rhus t.; Sil.

WORM FEVER — Bell.; Cina, Merc. s.; Santon.; Sil.; Spig.;
Stann,

YELLOW FEVER — Acon.; Ant. t.;_ Apis; Arg. #.; Ars.;
Bell.; Bry.; Cadm. s.; Camph.; Canth.; Carb. ac.; Carbo
.vu.; Chin. s.; Cinch.; Coff.; Crot. case.; Crot.; Cupr.;
Gels.; Guaco; Hyos ; Ipec.; Lach.; Merc.; Op.; Phos.;
Plumb.; Sab.; Sec.; Sul, ac.; Tereb.; Ver. a.
NERVOUS SYSTEM

BRAIN: EPILEPSY — (grand mal): Absinth,; &th.;  Agar.;
Am. br.; Amyl; Arg. n.; Art. v.; Ars.; Aster.; Atrop.;
Aur. br.; Avena; Bell.; Bor.; Bufo; Calc. ars.; Cale. c.
Cale. p.; Camph.; Can. ind.; Caust.; Cic. mac.; Cic..
Cim.; Coce.; Con.; Cupr. ac.; Cupr. m.; Ferr. cy.; Ferr.
Pi Gels.; Glon.; Hep.; Hydroc. ac.; Hyos.; Ign.; lic.
ndigo; Irid.; Kah br.; Kali_cy.; Kali m; Kali p.; Lach.
Mag. c; Mag. p.; Meli.; Methyl. bl.; Nit. ac.; Nux v..
Ginanthe; Op.; (Estrus; Passifl.; Phos.; Picrot.; Plumb.
m.; Psor.; Salam.; Santon.; Sec.; Sil; Solan. c.
Spirea; Stram.; Strych.; Sul.; | Sumb.; Tar. h.; Tub.
Val.; Verb.; Viscum; Zinc. cy.; Zinc. v.; Zizta.

CAUSE — CONCOMITANTS — Aura absent: Zine. v.

Aura absent; several fits, close together — Art. v.
Aura begins, as painful spot, betwen shoulders, or dizzi-
ness, flashes of heat, from abdomen to head — Indige.
Aura begins, as sensation of mouse running up limb; heat
from stomach; visual or aural disturbance — Bell ; Calc.
c.; Sul.

Aura begins, in brain, as a wavy sensation — Cim.

Aura begins, in knees, ascends to hypogastrium — Cupr m.

Aura begins, in left arm -- Sil.

Aura begins, in solar plexus — Bufo; Cale. c.; Nux v.; Sil

Aura hegins, in stomach or genitals — Buto.

Aura begins, in upper or lower limbs — Lyc.

Aura descends — Calc. c.

Aura felt, in heart region — Calc. ars.

During full moon; nocturnal — Calc. c.

During new moon; nocturnal — Caust.; Cupr. m.; Sil.

During sleep -— Kkufo; Cupr.: Lach.; Op.; Stl.

Followed by deep sleep -— th; Flyos.; Kali br.; Lach.; Op.

Followed by hiccough -— Cic.

Followed by nausea, vomiting — Rell

Followed by prostration — 7ith.; Chin. ars.; Cic.; Hydroc.
ac.: Sec; Sil; Strvch., Sul.

Followed by rage, automatic impulse — Op.

Followed by restlessness —-Cupr. m.

Followed by tremor — Arg. n.; Cie.

From eruptions, suppressed — Agar.; Calc. c.; Cupr. m.;
Psor.; Sul.

From fright, emotional causes-—— 47g. ”.; Art. v.; Bufo;
Cale. c.; Cham.; Hyos.; Jgn.; Sil.; Stram.

From hysteria — Asaf.; Cocc., Cupr. mj; Hyos.; IJgn.;
Mosch.; (Enanthe; Solan. c.; Sumb.; Tar. h.; Zine. 7.

From injury — Con.; Cupr. m; Meli.; Nat. s.

From menstrual disturbances— Arg. n.; Bufo; Caust.: Ced;
Cim.; Cupr. m.; Kali br.; Millef.; GEnanthe; Puls.; Solan. c.

From pregnancy - -(Enanthe.

From scleroses; brain tumors — Plumb. m.

From sexual disturbances-—— Art. v.; Bufo; Cale. c.; Plat.;
Stann.; Sul.
NERVOUS SYSTEM 1033

From syphilis, tubercular — Kali br.

From taking cold; nocturnal; worse right side — Caust.

From valvular disease -— Calc. ars.

From vital drains; onanism —— Lach.

From worms — Cina; Indigo; Sant.; Sil.; Stann.; Suh;
‘eucr.

In children —- A:th.; Art. v.; Bell.; Bufo; Cale. c.; Cham.;
Cupr. m.; Ign.; Sil; Sul.

Periodical seizures --- Ars.; Cupr. m.

Preceded, by cold on left side of body — Sil.

Preceded, by dilated pupils — Arg. n.

Preceded, by gastric flatulency — dig. n.; Nux v.; Psor.;
ul.

Preceded, by irritability, rambling — Bufo.

Preceded, by malaise -— Cic.

Preceded, by memory, confused — I,ach.

Preceded, by palpitation, vertigo —— Lach.

Preceded, by sudden cry — Cup:. m.; Hydroc. ac.

Preceded by tremblings, twitchings —~ Absinth., Aster.

Preceded, by vesicular eruption — Cic.

Recent cases — Beill.; Caust.; Cupr. m.; Hydruc. ac.; Ign;
Op.; Plumb. m.; Stram.

Recurrent, several times daily -— Art. v.; Cic.

Status spilepticus — Acon., #Eth.; Bell.; Cocc.; Cinanthe;
Plumb.; Zinc. m.

With consciousness — Ign.

With face red, thumbs clenched, jaws locked, foam at
mouth, eyes turned downwards, pupils fixed, dilated,
pulse small, quick, hard — Ath.

With paralysis following —— Caust.; Plumb. m.; Sec.

With swelling of stomach, screaming, unconsciousness,
trismus, distorted limbs; frequent during night — Cic.

With vertigo (epileptic) — Arg. n.; Bell.; Calc. c.; Caust.;
Coce.; Cupr.; Hydroc. ac.; Nit. ac.; Op.; Sil.; Stram.

PARALYSIS— Remedies in general: Absinth.; Acon.; Agar.;
Alum.; Angust.; Aragal.; Arg. iod.; Arg. n; ‘Ars, 1od.;
Asaf.; Astrag.; Aur.; Bar. ac.; Bar. c.; Bar. m.; Bell.;
Cale. caust.; Calend.; Can. smd.; Carbon. oxy.; Carbon.
s.; Caust., Chin. s.; Cic.; Cocc.; Colch.; Con.; Cupr. m.;
Dulc.; Gels.; Graph.; Grind ; Guaco; Helod.; Hydroc. ac.;
Hyos.; Hyper.; Ign.; Iris fl.; Kali br.; Kah c.; Kali iod.;
Kali p.; Lach.; Latrod. has.; Lol. tem.; Merc. c.; Nat. m.;
Nux v.; Oleand.; Op.; Ox. ac.; Oxytr.; Phos.; Physal.;
Physost.; Picr. ac.; Plat.: Plectranth.; Plumb. ac.; Plumb,
tod.; Plumb. m.; Rhus t., Stann.; Staph.; Sec.; Strych. ferr.
cit.; Sul; Tab.; Thell.; Ver. a; Xanth.; Zine. m.;
Zine. p.

TYPE — Agitans: — 4gar.: Ars.; Aur. sul; Avena; Bufo;
Camph. monobr.; Can. ind.; Cocaine; Coce; Con.; Dubd.;
Gels.; Helod.; Hyos.; Hyosc. hydrobr.; Kali br.; Lathyr.;
Lolium; Mag. p.; Merc. c.; Merce.; Nicotine; Phos.;
Physos.; Plumb ; Seutel.; Tab.; Tar. h.; Zine. cy.; Zine.
pier.

Ascending spinal — Alum.; Con.; Gels.; Lathyr.; Led.; Ox.
ac., Phos., Sec See Spine.
1034 NERVOUS SYSTEM

Bulbar — Guaco; Mang. ox.; Plumb. m.

General of insane — Ant. c.; Ars.; Aur.; Bell.; Cam. ind ;
Caust.; Flyos.; Kali br.; Kali tod. ; Merc. c.; Nat. iod.;
Nux v; Op; Phos.; Physost.; Plumb. ; Stram.; Sul.;
Ver. a

HEMIPLEGIA— Ambra; 4rn.; Ars.; Aur. m.; Bapt.; Ber c. ;
Bothrops; Carbon. s.;| Caust.; Chenop.; Cote. r.3
Elaps; Hydroc. ac.; Irid ; Lach.; Nux v.; Oleand.; Phos.;
Physost, Picr ac.; Rhus t.; Sec., Stann.; Strych.; Ver.

+ v.; Vipera; Xanth.

Hemiplegia, left — Ambra; Arn.; RBapt.; Bell; Coce.; Cupr.
ars; Lach, Lye; Physost.; Ver. v: Xanth.

Hemiplegia, right — Bell.; Caust., Chenop.; Cur.; Elaps;
Tid,

Hysterical--Acon.; Arg. n.;  Asaf.; Coec; Ign.; Phos.;
Tar. h. :

Infantile (poliomyelitis anterior) — 4con . .Eth.; | Bell.;
Cale. c., Caust.; Chrom. s.; Gels.; Nux v ; Phos.; Plumb.
m,; Raus t.s See; Sul. See Spine.

Labio- glosso- pharyngeal —Anac.; Bar. c:; Bell.; Caust.;
Coce.; Con.; Gels.; Mang. binox.; Nux v.; Oleand.;
Plumb.

Landry’s paralysis - Aconitin.; Con.; Lyssin

Lead ——.llumen, Caust; Cupi.; Kali iod ; Nux v3 Op;
Plumb.; Sul. ac

LOCALIZED, in ankles, in afternoon — Cham

Localized, in arms, hands — Cupr. m.; ‘Thyr.

Localized, in bladder - Cau.t.; Nux v.

Localized, in chest —- Gels.

Localized, in eye muscles ---Caust.; Con., Gels ; Phos.;
Physost.; Rhus t.

Localized, in face (Bell’s palsy) — Acon.; 41. phos.; Bar
c, Bell; Caust.; Cur.; Gels.; Graph ; Kali chlor; Nat.
m; Rhus t; Solan. ves.; 3 Zinc. pier.

Localized, in feet at night —- Chain.

Localized, in forearm (wrist drop) --- Cur; Terr. ac;
Plumb. ac., Plimb m.; Ruta; Sil.

Localized, in motor nerves — Cur.: Cystisin, Gels, Or. ac
Phos.; Physost. Xanth.

Localized, in neck ~- Cocc

Localized, in sensory nerves — Cucame, Laburn ; Plat.

Lecalized, in sphincters — Ars.: Caust.; Gels.; Nux v.
Phos.: Physost.

Localized, in throat, vocal cords — Bell , Bothrops; Canth.
Caust., Cocaine; Coce.; Gels.; Kali PB; Ox. ac.; Plumb.

MARAPLEGIA — Acon.; Alum; Anhal.; .4rg. mj; Arn.; Ars.

vy», Belly Caul.; Caust.; Coce.; Con, ” Cupr. m.; Cur.; Dulce.
Formica; Gels., Hyper.; Kali iod.; Aah tart.; Kal.; Lach
Latiiyr. ; Latrod. has.; ‘Mang. ac.; Mere. C5 Nux v.; Ox.
a; Phos.; Physost. 5 ; Pier. ac.; Plumb. ac.; Rhus t.; Sec.
Strych.; Thall.; Thyr.

Paraplegia, hysterical — Coce.; Con.; Cupr.; Ign.; Nux v.

ar, h.
1034 NERVOUS SYSTEM

Bulbar — Guaco; Mang. ox.; Plumb. m.

General of insane — Ant. c.; Ars.; Aur.; Bell.; Cam. ind ;
Caust.; Flyos.; Kali br.; Kali tod. ; Merc. c.; Nat. iod.;
Nux v; Op; Phos.; Physost.; Plumb. ; Stram.; Sul.;
Ver. a

HEMIPLEGIA— Ambra; 4rn.; Ars.; Aur. m.; Bapt.; Ber c. ;
Bothrops; Carbon. s.;| Caust.; Chenop.; Cote. r.3
Elaps; Hydroc. ac.; Irid ; Lach.; Nux v.; Oleand.; Phos.;
Physost, Picr ac.; Rhus t.; Sec., Stann.; Strych.; Ver.

+ v.; Vipera; Xanth.

Hemiplegia, left — Ambra; Arn.; RBapt.; Bell; Coce.; Cupr.
ars; Lach, Lye; Physost.; Ver. v: Xanth.

Hemiplegia, right — Bell.; Caust., Chenop.; Cur.; Elaps;
Tid,

Hysterical--Acon.; Arg. n.;  Asaf.; Coec; Ign.; Phos.;
Tar. h. :

Infantile (poliomyelitis anterior) — 4con . .Eth.; | Bell.;
Cale. c., Caust.; Chrom. s.; Gels.; Nux v ; Phos.; Plumb.
m,; Raus t.s See; Sul. See Spine.

Labio- glosso- pharyngeal —Anac.; Bar. c:; Bell.; Caust.;
Coce.; Con.; Gels.; Mang. binox.; Nux v.; Oleand.;
Plumb.

Landry’s paralysis - Aconitin.; Con.; Lyssin

Lead ——.llumen, Caust; Cupi.; Kali iod ; Nux v3 Op;
Plumb.; Sul. ac

LOCALIZED, in ankles, in afternoon — Cham

Localized, in arms, hands — Cupr. m.; ‘Thyr.

Localized, in bladder - Cau.t.; Nux v.

Localized, in chest —- Gels.

Localized, in eye muscles ---Caust.; Con., Gels ; Phos.;
Physost.; Rhus t.

Localized, in face (Bell’s palsy) — Acon.; 41. phos.; Bar
c, Bell; Caust.; Cur.; Gels.; Graph ; Kali chlor; Nat.
m; Rhus t; Solan. ves.; 3 Zinc. pier.

Localized, in feet at night —- Chain.

Localized, in forearm (wrist drop) --- Cur; Terr. ac;
Plumb. ac., Plimb m.; Ruta; Sil.

Localized, in motor nerves — Cur.: Cystisin, Gels, Or. ac
Phos.; Physost. Xanth.

Localized, in neck ~- Cocc

Localized, in sensory nerves — Cucame, Laburn ; Plat.

Lecalized, in sphincters — Ars.: Caust.; Gels.; Nux v.
Phos.: Physost.

Localized, in throat, vocal cords — Bell , Bothrops; Canth.
Caust., Cocaine; Coce.; Gels.; Kali PB; Ox. ac.; Plumb.

MARAPLEGIA — Acon.; Alum; Anhal.; .4rg. mj; Arn.; Ars.

vy», Belly Caul.; Caust.; Coce.; Con, ” Cupr. m.; Cur.; Dulce.
Formica; Gels., Hyper.; Kali iod.; Aah tart.; Kal.; Lach
Latiiyr. ; Latrod. has.; ‘Mang. ac.; Mere. C5 Nux v.; Ox.
a; Phos.; Physost. 5 ; Pier. ac.; Plumb. ac.; Rhus t.; Sec.
Strych.; Thall.; Thyr.

Paraplegia, hysterical — Coce.; Con.; Cupr.; Ign.; Nux v.

ar, h.
NERVOUS SYSTEM 1035

Paraplegia, spastic—-Gels.: Hyper: Lathws., Nux ..:
Piectranth.; See. See Sclerosis (Spine).

POST-DIPHTHERITIC - 41g. 1; Aur. mur.; Avena; Botul.;
Causts Cocc,, Con.; Diph.; Gels.; Kali iod; Lach; Nat.

Nnx ve Phos. ; ; Phyt.; ‘Plumb. ac.; Plumb m; : Rhod.:
Rbns t.: See.

Pscudo-hypertrophic -Cur., Phos, Thvr

Rheumatic —Canst, Tile; Lathyi.. Phos; Rhus t., So.

Sp nal origin — Alum: Bell; Can ind: Con, Tid, Lathyr ;
Phos , Vhysost.; Pier. act, Plumb , Xanth

PETIT MAL -.irt 2, Bell; Caust.; Phos.: Zine. cv.

SLEEP — DROWSINESS: -Fth, Am. c: Ant ci dat. t;
{pis Apoe, Arn, Aur. cfu. mae, Bart: Bar mim,
Can and, Carbon. or , Carbon. s+ Cawst 3 Cinch; Clem ;
Ceea. Voce: Comus fl; Crel, Dub., Ferr P: Gels ;
TWelleb., “elon. Wydioe ac; Indo!, Kali bs.: Kal ic,
TLaburn Linear Lob purp.s Lapul, Morph Naja;
Nua, Op Phos, acy Phos: Pyrt Rhus t: Rosmar.;
Sareel. ac. Scrophnl, Senee; Suwiphon.; Thea; Zine. m.

Drowsiness, after meals —Vism; Crich , Graph: Kali «3
Tow, Nux ov. Pavl: Phos; Puls, Scrophul. Sce In-
dizestion (Stomach).

Drowsiness, during day --- 4gar, Alum; 4m. oc, Amac;
cint 2, Cah oy Cale. ps Can. s.3 Carbo v.; Cinch.;
Cinnab, Cotch., Euphias; Graph.; Indol; Kali c.3 Lupul.;
Dye, Mag. ain. Metre c; Mcte; Nat oa: Nat. ms; Op,
Phos. Sop: Stl; Spoag.; Staph ; Sul; Tub.

Drowsiness, during day, wakeful at P. M. - Tbies_n., Cin-
nab. Colch: Graph; Lach: Lve.;  Mere.; Phos. ac.;
Sil, Thea Sce Insomnia.

Drowsiness, in A. M. and forenoon — Alum; Anac; 4m. c;
Bism.; Carho v3 Nat m; Nur a: Petrol; Zine. m

Drowsiness, in early evening — Calc c; Mang. ac; Nur v.;
Phos., Puls. Scpey ud

Drewsiness, yet cannot sleeo -- Ambia: 4fis; Bell.; Can.
ind; Caust: Cham.; Coff.; Cupr. m.; Ferr. m3; Gels.;
Lach.; Morph., Op.; Sil; Stram.

INCUBUS (nightmare) —Acon; Am cj Arn; Aur. br;
Bapt : Can, and., Chloral.; Cima, Cyprip.; Daphne; Kali
br.; Kah p; Op; Nur o; Nit. ac; Peonia; Pariet.;
Phos; Piel; Scutel.; Puls.; Solan. n.; Sul.

INSOMNIA (sleeplessness) — Remedies in general: Absinth. ;

Acon; Agar, Alfal.; Alum.; Ambra; Am, ce; <Anac.;
Ant. c3 Apis; Apomorph. ; Aquil.; Arn; Arg. nj Ars ;
Aur: .4vena; Bapt ; Bell.; Bry.; But. ac.; Cact.; Caf-
feme; Cale. ¢.: Cawph.; Camph. monobr.; Can, ind. ;
Caul ; Cham.; Chin, s.; Chloral, Ghiysanth.: Cim:; Cinch.;
Coca, Cocaine; Cocc’; Coff.; Cols Cuprip.; "Daphne:
Dipod ; Gels.; Hyos.; Hyosc. hydrobr, ; (oni Tod. : Kak
br., Kali Ds Lecith.; Lil. t; Lupul.; ssin;
Merc; Nua v.: Op.; Passf.; Phos.: + ha 5 Mag pi
Selen.; Scutel.; Stann.; Staph.; Sulphon.; Sul.; Sumb.;
Stram.; Tela ar.; Thea; Val; Xanth.; Yohimb.; Zinc.
p.; Zine. v.
1036 NERVOUS SYSTEM

CAUSES — OCCURRENCE — Abdominal disturbances: -—— Ant.
t.; upr, m.
Aching in bones — J)aphne.
Aching in muscles, too much exhausted, tired out — ITelon
Alcoholic, drug, habits -—— A1s.; Avena; Can. ind.; C1m.;
Gels , Hyos.; Nux v.; Op; Sce.; ; Stram.; Sumo. '
Anxiety, driving him out of bed, aggravated after midnight

Ass.

Aortic disease — Crat.

Arterial pulsations — Acon ; ; Bell, Cact ; Glon.; See.; Selen ,
Sul, Thea

Banqueting, late suppers — Puls.

Bed feels too hard, cannot lie on it — Ain.; Biy., Py.

Chest oppression — Physal.

Chronic nicotinism -- Plant.

Coffee, abuse --Cham; Nut 7.

Coldness of body —.Jcon., Ambra; Camph.; Carbo v.; Cis-
tus; bcr. a

Coldness of knees Apis, Carbo v.

Cramps — <Argen. mex.; Col.; Cupr, m.

Delirium —A\con.; Bell.; Cact.; Cale. ¢, Can, aid, Gels,
Hyos., Kah br.; Phos.; Stram.; Ver a. See Mind.

Dentition — Beli; Bor.; Cham., Coca; Coff.; Cyprip. See
Teeth,

Menopause; women with prolapsus uteri Senec.

Mouth and throat sore Arum, Mere.

Multiple neuritis — Con.

Weaning of child - - Bell.

DREAMS — Accidents, falling from height, etc.: Arn, Bell.,

Cale. ¢; Dig; Lye; Nit. ac.; Sil; Ver. a.

Animals, snakes —- Arg nj; Daphne; Op; Ran se.

Anxious -- .\bics n.; cicon., Ambia; Anac.; clips, lig. on,
Am.; rs., Bell.; Bry.; Cale. ¢.; Caust.; Can. ind.;
Canth., Chaon., Cinch ; ; Kuphorb, dath ; Fert. p.; Grapb.;
Ign.; Kah c; Lye; Nat m; Nit. ac; Nux v.; Oxytr.;
Puls.; RAus t., See; Sep.: Stl; Staph.; Sul, Zinc. m.

Confused — A\lum.;  Cinch.; Glo; 3 [lelleb. ; "Hydroc. ac;
Phos.

Continues, after being apparently awake — Calc. c.; Cinch.;

at im,

Death, or dead persons --Arn.; -4rs.; Cale. c.; Can. ind.;
Crot. case; Cret.; laps; Lach.; Nit. ac.; Ran. se.

Dreamful -Alum.; Brom.; Con.; Hyos.; Ign; Lyce.; Nit.
ac.; Phos.; Sep.

Drinking — Ars.; Med.; Phos.

Exertion of body, toil, business — Apis; <Ars.; Rapt ; Bry.;
Nat. m.; Nux v; Phos., Pals.; Rhus t., Selen.; Staph.

Fantastic, pleasant — Op.

Fires, flames, lightning -- Bell.; Eupiras.; Phos.

Flying through air — Apis; Rhus gi., Sticta.

Forgotten matters — Selen.

Happy dreams — Sul.
morrhage — Phos.

Horrible — Adon, v.; .irg. n.; Aur.; Bapt.; Bell.; Cact.;
Cale c¢.; Can. ind.; Castor.; Cham; Cinch.; Colch.;

NERVOUS SYSTEM 1037

FKupiwn; Graph.; Wyos.; Kah br.; Kali c.3 Lilt. Lyes
Merc, c.; Nux_v.; Op.; Phos; Psor.; Puls.; Ran. 8.3
Rhus t.; See; Scp.; Stram.; Sul, Thea; Zine. m.

Images bewildering, figures —- Bell.; Hyos.

Lascivious -- Arg. n; Ars; Can. md., Canth.; Cob.: Diose.;
Ham ; Haos.; Ign.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Op.; Phos. ac.,
Phos.; Sil; Staph.; Thuya; Ustil.; Ver. v. See Emis-
sions (Male Sexual System

Laughs, during — Alum.; Caust.: Hyos.; Lye.

Robbers —- Bell ; Nat om; Psor; Ver. a.

Vivid— Agar.; Arg. n.; Brom.: Can. ind.; Cenchris: Cham.;
Coff. Dapbae; Diose , Wydroc. ac.; Hyos ; Indol; lod.;
Mong. ac; Nat. m.: Petrol; Phos.; Puls.; Pyr.; Sul.;
Tub; Ver. v. See Anxious.

Dry mouth —- Apis; Calc. ¢; Caust; Lach.; Nav om... Parts;
Puls.; ‘Tar. h.

Emotional causes (grief, worry, anxiety, over-excitement,
nervousness) — Absinth.; Acon, <Alfal; Ambra, Aur.;
Bry.; Can. wd., Cham.; Chin. ars.; Chicral; Com.; Coca;
Coff., Col.; Gels., Hyos., Hyose. hydrobi.; Ign., Kali_br.;
Mosch.; Nat. m.; Nuwx v., Op., Passifl.; Phos. ac.; Plat.;
Senec ; Sep.; Stram ; Sul.; Thea; Val; Zinc. v.

Exhaustion, debility, over-exertion of mind or body — 472. ;
Ars., Avena; Can. ind.; Chin. s.; Chloral; Crm.; Cinch.;
Coca: Cocc., Colch.; Dipod.; Gels.; Hyos.; Kah br.; Nas
v.; Passifl; Piscidia; Phos.

Eyes, half open, during — Bell.; Cham.; Hyos.; Ipec.; Op.;
Pod; Zinc. m. See Eyes.

Every second night — Cinch.; Lach.

Formication in calves and feet — Sul.

Grinding of teeth, during — Bell.; Cic.; Cina; Helleb.; Kali
br.; Pod ; Santon.; Spig.

Heat in general — Acen,; Arn.; Bar. c.; Bell.; Bor.; Caust.;
Cham.; Hep.; Kali br.; Mag. m.; Meph.; Op.; Same.;
Sil.; Sul.

Hunger— Abies n.. Apium gr.; Cina; Ign.; Lyc; Psor.;
ul,

Hyperacute senses — Beli.; Calc. bi.; Cham.; Cocc.; Coff.;
Ign.; Op.; Val.: Zine. v. ;

In aged — Acon.; Ars.; Op.; Passifl.; Phos.

In children— Absinth.; Acon.; Ars.; Bell.; Cale, br ; Cham.;
Cina; Cyprip.; Hyos.; Kali br.; Passifi.; Phos.; Puls.;
ul.

Itching — Acon.; Agar.; Psor.; Teucr.; Val.

Itching of anus — Aloe; Coff.; Ign.; Indigo.

Itching of scrotum — Urt.

Mental activity, flow of ideas -Acon.; Apium  gr.; Apis
Bry.; Cale. c.; Cinch; Coce.; Coff.; Gels.; Hep.; Hyos.
Lyc.; Mepb.; Nux v.; Puls.; Sep.; Ver. a.; Yohimb.

Moaning, whining, during — Ant. t.;  Arn.;  Ars.; Aur.
Bapt.; Bell.; Carbo v.; Cham.; Cic.; Cupr. ac.; Gels.
Helleb.; Hyos.; Kali br.; Lach.; Lyc.; Mur. ac.; Nat. m,
Nit. ac.; Op.; Pod.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Ver. a.

Mouth, open — Merc.; Rhus t.; Samb.

Nose stopped up, cannot breathe -— Am. c.
1038 NERVOUS SYSTEM

Pains —- .\rs; | Can. ind.; Cham, Col; Mag. m.; Merc;
Passifl.; Puls , Sinap. n.
Palpitation — Acon.; Alum.; Am. c.; Cact.; Jod.; Rhus t.;

POSITION — Must lie in knee-chest position: Med.

Must lie on back — Am. c; dirs, Cina.
Must lie on back, with thighs drawn upon abdomen, hands
above head: disposition to uncover lower limbs —- Plat

Must lie on belly — Acet. ac.; Am. c.

Must lie on hands and knees — Cina

Muge ile with hands over head-— .\1s.; Nux v.; Plat.; Puls.;
Su er. a.

Must lie with hands under head-— .\con.; .Ars.; Bell.; Cinch.;
Col; Plat.

Must lie with legs apart --- Cham ; Plat

Must lie with legs crossed -- Rhod

Must lie with one leg drawn up, other stretched out —
tann

Must move or fidget feet constantly -- Zinc m.

RESTLESSNESS, awakens frequently (catnaps)— Bar c;
Cale co; VD) iB > Ferr ain; Jgn.; we: Nit. ac.; Phos, Plat,
Sateol, ac; Selen.; Sil; Stram.; Sul.

Restlessness, during — 4ron., Agar; Alum.; Ambra; Apis;
Apoc.; Arg. nm; Arn.; drs., Bapt., Bell; Bey ; Cale. c.;
Can. ind.; Castor ; Caust.; Cham ; Cina; Cim.; Cinch ;
Coca; Cocaine; Coff., Kup perf.; Gels.; Glon.; Graph.;
TIyos., Ign.; Jal., Kali bry Lye.s "Menthol: Nit. ac; ; Nux
\; Passifl; Msor., Ptel, Puls.; Radium, Rhus t.; Santon.;
Saicol ac.; Scutel.; Stram ; Strent. e.3 Sulphon.; «3 Sul;
Tar. h.; Thea; Zine. m

Restlessness, kicks off clothes -—— Hep.; Sanic.; Sud.

Restlessness, rolling head — Apis; Bell, Helleb.; Pod., Zinc
m

Sexual causes-- Can. ind.; Canth.; Nal br., Raph. See Sex-
nal System.

Shocks, electric-like, on falling asleer -- Ant. t.; Cupr. m.;
Ign.; Ipec.

Shrieks, screams, awakens frightened —<aAnt c; -Ant. t3
Ags; Aur.; Bell.; Bor., Bry.; Cham.; Crc.; Cina, Cinch.;
Cup. ac; Cypmp.; Dig.; ‘Helleb.; Hyos., Ign.; Iodof.;
Kah br; Lye; Nux m.; Phos; Psor.; Puls; Stram.;
Tub.; Zinc. m.

Singing, during — Bell ; Croc.; Phos. ac.

Singing on awakening — Sul.

Skin dry —- Thea.

Sleepless, in © in evening, before midnight — Ars. ; > Lach. ; ; Lil, t;
Ths m.; ‘Nux:v.; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Selen.;

‘ uya.

Sirapless, after 2-3 A. M.— eapium, Tt; Bapt.; Bellis; Bry.;
Cale. ¢.; Cinch; Coff.; Gels.; Kali ¢.; Kal; Nat. c.3 Nat.
m; Nit. ae; Nuw u., Seéen.; Sep.

Saoring, during —Cinch.; Laur.; Op.; Sil.; Stram.; Tub.;
Zinc. m.

Soperous, deep, heavy sleep— Am. c.; Ant. c.; Apis; Are: ;
Cinch; Cupr. m.; Helleb.; Hyos.; Kati br.;  Laet.-
NERVOUS SYSTEM 1039

Laur. Lome, Lupul, Morph, Naja; Nux m: Op.;
Phos. ac.; Piscidia; Pod.; Rhus t.: See; Stram.; Sul.

Spasmodic symptoms, during (jerkings, twitchings, start-
ings)—— Acon., 4th ; Agar., Ambra; Ant. c.; Apis; Ais;
Bell., Bor, Brom; Bry.; Cale o.; Carbo v.; Castor;
Caust., Cham., Cima, Cinch; Cupr ac., Daphne; Melleb.;
Hyos., Ign., Kali c; Lyc.; Morph.; Nit. ac., Nux v,
Passifl ; Phos.; Samb.; Sal; Stram ; Sul., Tar. he; Val,
Zino m, Zizia.

Suddenly wide awake —- Sul.

Suffocation, loss of breath, on falling asleep — .f:2 © , Ars;
Cur., Graph; Grind, Wali i0d.; Lach; Mere pre rub;
Morph ; Naya; Op; Samb.; Spong.; Stiont. c; Sul;
Teucr.

Sweating, during-- -Eth.; Cale. ¢.; Cham, Cinch > Op.;
Poor. Sil, Ver. a See Night Sweats (Fever).

Talking, during -- Bar oc, Bell; Bry., Carbo vii Crna:
Graph : Helleb, Jivos; Kah oc, Lye. Sep; Si; Sul;
Ali, MM

Tea, abuse — Camph. monobr.; Cinch.; Nux v, Puls

Tobacco - Geis

Unrefreshing, awakens wretched — Aluin.; Ant. c.; Apium
gr.. ¢is., Brom., Bry.; Cinch, Cob.; Con, Dig; Ferr.
m.; Graph.; Hep., Lach., Lil. t; Lye., Mag. c,, Mere. c.;
Myr, Nuviz., Op.: Phos., Ptel ; Puls., Rhus t ; Sarcol. ac.;
Sep.; Sul, Thuya, Trymol; Tub ; Zinc. m.

Walking, during (somnambulism) Art. v.; Bry., Aah br;
Peomia: Sil. See Mind.

Yawning, stretching, limbs — Acon.; Ager.; Am]; Ant. t.;
Arm; Cale o.; Carls.; Castor.; Copa; Chel; Cima; Canch.;
Coca: Crot.: Cupr. ac; Elat.; Euphras.: Gels., Hep,
Hydroc, ac.: lan, Kah c; Lyc.; Mang.; Morph.; Vat.
m, Nuva, Rhus t., Sees Si, Sul

GENERALITIES — ADYNAMIA (general weakness, debility):
Abies c.. .4cet. ac.; Adren.;  A&th.; eft; dlet.; Alston;
Ambra; Am c.; Anac.; Ant. t; Antipyn; Apis, Arg. 1.;
Am, «drs. tod.; Ars.; Asaf.; Aur.; Aur. mur.; Avena;
Bals. per., Bapt.; Bar, c.; Belhs.; Bry.; Calc. ¢ ; Cale,
hypophos.; Cale .p.;, Camph.; Can. 5.; Canth.; Carb. ac.;
Carbo v.; Caul.; Caust, Chin. ars.; Chin. s. Cinch;
Coca; Coce., Colch.; Con.; Crat.; Crot.; Cupr. m., Cur.;
Dig., Tipod; Dulce; Echin.; Ferr. cit. ct chin.; Ferr.
m., Ferr  mui.; Ferr. p.; Ferr. picr.; Gels.; Welleb.;
Helon., Hep.; Hydr.; Hyos.; Ign; Jod.; Ipec.; Ivrid.;
Tris; Kali br; Aalt c.; Kali_iod.; Kal p.; Lac. c.; Lach.;
Lact. ac; Lil. t.;_ Lith. ¢.; Lith. chlor.; Lob. purp.; Lyc.;
Mag. m.; Mel; Mere. c.; Merc. cv.; Merc, i. 1.3 Mere.;

Murex; Mur. ac.; Nat. c., Nat. m.; Nat. sal.; Nit. ac.;

Nux v.; Op.; Ornithog.; Ox. ac.; Phos. ac.; Phos;

Physost.; Phyt.; Picr. ec.; Plumb. m.; Pser.; Rhus t.;

Ruta; Sang.: Sarcol. ace; Sec.; Selen.; Sep.; Sil; Solid.;

Spong.; Stann.; Stroph.; Strych.; Sulphon. ; Sul, ac.; Sul.;

Tab.; Tanac.; 'Tereb.; Thea; Thuya; Tub.; Uran. n ; Val;

Ver. a.; Zinc. ars., Zine. m.; Zine, p.; Zine, pier.

1040 NERVOUS SYSTEM

Adynamia, collapse — Acetan.; Acon.; Ant. t.; Arn.; Ars.;
Camph. ; Carb. ac.; Carbo v.; Coleh.; Crat.; Gre Cupr.

ac.; Dig.; Hydroc. ac.; Laur.; 3 + purp.; ; Med.; Merc.
cy. Morph. ; ; Nicot.; Op.; belices’ hos.; Sec.; Tab.;
er. a., ZINC. m.

Adynamia, afebrile — Ars.; Bapt ; Carbo v.; Cinch.

Adynamia, from acute diseases, mental strain — Abrot.;
Alet.; lston.; Anac.;. Avena; Calc. p ; Carbo an.; Carbo
v.; Chin, ars.; Cinch., Cocc.; Colch ; Cupr. m.; Cur.; Dig.;
Gels.; Helon.; Ind.; Kali ferocy.; ; Kah ps Lathyr.; 3 Lob.
purp.; Macroz.; Nat. gal.; Nux vj; Phos. ac: 3 Phos.;
Psor.; Selen.; Sil; Staph.; Strych. p.; Zinc. ars.

Adynamia, from anesthetica; surgical shock — Acet. ac.

Adynamia, from depressing emotions — Calc p.; Ign.; Phos.
ac. .

Adynamia, from drugging, -— Carbo v.; Helon.; Nix v.

Adynamia, from excesses, vital drains —- Agar.; Anac.; Calc.
f.; Carbo v.; Caust.; Chin. s.: Cinch., Corn, fl.; Cur;
Gins.; Kali c.; Nat. m.; Phos. ac.; Phos.: ¢ Selen.; ; Stroph.

Adynamia, from heat of summer —Ant. c.; Gels.; Lach;

at. c.; Selen.

Adynamia, from injuries — Acet. ac.; Arn.; Calend.; Carbo
an.; Sul ac.

Adynamia, from jaundice — Feri. picr.; Picr. ac.

Adynamia, from loss of sleep — Cocc.; Colch.; Nux v.

Adynamia, from menses; talking even ‘fatigues — Alum.

Adynamia, from some deep-seated dyscrasia— Abrot. ; Psor.;
Sul ac; Sul: Tub.s Zinc. m,

Adynamia, hysterical — Nat. m.

Adynamia, in aged --- Bar. c.; Carbo v.; Con.; Cur.; Gly-
cerin; Phos.; Selen,

Adynamia, nervous — Ambra; Anac.; Cur.; Gels.; Phos. ac.;
Phos ; Rhus t.; Sd.

Adynamia, with erethism — Ars.; Cinch

Adynamia, with frequent, faint spells during day — Sul. ;
Ac. M.

Adynamia, without erethism — Phos. ac.

Adynamia, without organic lesion or cause — Psor.

Adynamia, worse from ascending — Calc. c.; Sarcol. ac.

Adynamia, worse from descending —- Stann.

Adynamia, worse from exertion, walking -- {rs ; Bry.; Cale.
c.; Caust.; Ferr. m.; Nat. c.; Phos. ac.; Picr. ac.; Sarcol.
ac.; Scep.; Rhus d.; Stann.; Thea.

Adynamia, worse in A. M. — Acal.: Bar. m.; Bry.; Cale. c.
Con.; Com. c.; Lac c.; Lach: Lye; Nat. mi; Nit. ac.
Phos.; Psor.; Sep.; Sul

ALCOHOLISM —Acon.; Agar.; Ant. t.; Apoc., Apomorph.

Ars.; Asar ; Aut., clwena; Bell ; Biom.: Cale. ars.; Cale. c.

« Can, ind.; Caps.; a Chimaph.; Cim.; Cinch. rub.; Coc.

frot C upr. ars.; Gels.; dr.; Hyos.; Tehthy 3 Kall, jod.

ach.; Led.; Lob. inf; apul.; Nus vs Op.; B .

Psor.; Quere.; ; Ran, Stercul.; Stram.; Stro site.

m.; Sul ac.; Sul; Sorte Tub; Zinc. m. See Chronic
Gastritis (Stomach).

Alcoholism: to overcome habit — Angel.; Bufo; Cinch. rub.;
Querc.; Scereui.; Sul. ac.; Sul.
NERVOUS SYSTEM 1041

ATHETOSES — Lathyr.; Strych.

BERI-BERI — Elat.; Lathyr.; Rhus t.

CHOREA (St. Vitus dance) —- Absinth.: Agar.; Agaricin; Arg.
n.; Ars.; Art. v, Asaf.; Aster.; Avena; Bell.; Bufo
Cale. c; Cale. p 3 Caust., Cham.; Chloral; Cic.; Cam.
Cina; Cocaine; Cocc.; Con.; Croc.; Cupr. ac.; Cupre m.
Eup. ar.; Ferr. cy.; Ferr. red.; Hippom.; Hyos.; Ign.
Tod.; Kali br.; Latrod.; Mag. p., Myg.; Nat. m., Nua v.
Op.; Phos.; Physost.; Pictrox ; Psor.; Puls.; Santon.
Scutel.; Sep.; Solau.; Spig.; Stram , Strych.; Strych. p.
Sulphon.; Sul.; Sumb.; Tanac.; Tar. h., Thasp.; Thuya
Ver, v.; Viscum, Zinc. ars.; Zinc. br., Zine. cy.; Zine. m.
Zine. v.

CAUSE — OCCURRENCE — Anemia: Ars.; Cinch.; Ferr. red.

yos.
Corybantism — Bell.; Iyos.; Stram.
Eruptions, suppressed = - Zinc. m.
Fright —- Cale. ce; Cim.; Cupt.; Jgn., Laur.; Nat m.; Stram.
ar. h.; Zine. m.
Nervous disturbances - 4saf., Bell.; Cim.; Coce.; Gels.;
Hyos.; Ign.; Kah br; Op.; Sticta; Stram.
Onanism — Agai.; Cale c.; Cinch.
,, Pubertic —- aAsaf.; Caul; Com ; Ign.; Pals.
’ Reflex, from dentition, pregnancy — Hecll.
Relief, from music, sight of bright colors — Tar. h.
Relief, from sleep — Aga~., Cupr. m
Rheumatism — Caust.; Cum., Spig
Rhythmical motions -- Agar.; Caust.; Cham.; Cim.; Lyc.;
‘ar. k.
Scrofulous, tubercular. Calc. c.; Cale. p.; Caust.; Jod.;
hos., Psor. :
Worms — Asaf.; Cale. ¢ ; Cina; Santon.; Spig.
Worse, at approach of thunder storm —- Ayar.
Worse, during sleep -— ‘lar. h ; Zerta. .
Worse, face- (Carst,, Cic.; Cupr.; Hyos.; Wyg.; Nat. m.;
Zinc. m.
Worse, from cold, noise, light, emotions —-Ign.
Worse, in spasms, partial, changing constantly Stram.
Worse, left arm, right leg — Cim.
Worse, right arm, left leg — Agar.
Worse, right arm, right leg —- ar. h.
Worse, right sidé, tongue affected, staccato speech —
Caust.
Worse unilaterally — Calc. c.

CONVULSIONS — Remedies in general: Absinth.; Acon,; Zth.
Agar.; Alum. sil; Antipyr.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Art. v.; Atrop.
Bell.; Camph.; Can ind; Canth.; Carb. ac.; Castor.
Cham.; Chloroform: Cic. mac.; Cic.; Cim.; Cina; Coce.
Cupr. ac; Cupr. ars.; Cupr. m.; Dule.; Euonym,; Gels.
Glon.; Helleb.; Hydroc, ac,; Hyper.; Hyos.; Ign.; Mic.
Iris fi.; Kali br.; Laburn.; Laur.; Lonic.; Lyssin; Mag. p-
Morph.; Nux v.; Cinanthe; Op.; Ox. ac.; Passifl.; Phos.
Physost.; Plat.; Plumb. chrom.; Plumb.; Santon; Stl.
Solan, ¢ ; Solan. n.; Stram.; Strych.; Sul; Upas art.
Upas t.; Ver. a3 Ver. v.; Verbena; Zinc. m.¢ Zinc. oxy.

inc. §.
1042 NERVOUS SYSTEM

CAUSE AND TYPE— Anger: Cham.; Nux v.

Apoplectic; in inebriates; hemorrhagic or broken down
systems — Crot.

Carphopedal -— Cupr ac.; Ign.

Cataleptic —-Cic ; Mosch.

Cerebral sclerosis or tumor — Plumb. m.

Children, infants, from reflex causes, dentition -—~‘Absinth.;
4th; Art. v.; Bell.; Cale. ¢.; Camph. monobdr.; Caust.;
Cham.; Chloral; Ctc.; Cina, Cocc.; Cupr. m.; Cyprip.;
Helleb.; Hydroc. ac.;  Hyos.; JIgn.; Kali br.;  Kreos.;
Laur , Mag. p.; Meli.; Mosch.; Nux v; (Enanthe; Op.;
Santon.; Scutel.; Stann.; Stram.; Zinc. m.; Zine. sul.
Sce Worms.

Clonic — Antipyr.; Apis; Bell.; Camph.; Carb ac.; Cina;
Cupr. m.; Gels.; Tlyos; Ign.; Nicot.; Plumb. m.; Upas
art.

Crying; approach of strangers ~— Op.

Exanthemata — Acon., Bell.; Glun.: Thea; Ver. v

Exanthemata, suppressed — Ars.; 3 Cup. m; Op.; Stram.;

. Zumce, m; Zinc s.

Foot sweat, suppressed — Sil.

Fright -— Acon.; Cupr. m.; Ilyos ; Igu.; Op.; Stram.

Grief — Ign.

Hypochondriacal — Mosch.; Stann.

Hysterical — Absinth.; Asaf.; Asar.: Castor.; Caul.; Cim ;
Coce.; Gels.; Hydroc. ac., Hvyos., Jgn.; Kali p.; Moscl..:
Nux m.; Plat.; Stann.; Tar. h.

Injury — ie; Hype:.

Isolated groups of muscles — Acon.; Cic., Cina; Cupr.; Ign.;

ux v.3 Stram.; Strych.

Labor — Acon.; Bell; Cic.; Cupr. m; Glon.; Hyos.: Ign.;
Kah br.; Cinanthe; Stram.; Ver. v. See Female Sexual
System.

Menses suppressed —Gcls.; | Millef. See Female Sexual
System.

Metastases, from other organs -— Apis; Cupr.; Zinc m.

Prodromata — .\con.; Bell.; Cham ; Ipec.; Op.

Sleep, loss of —- Cocc.

Spinal origin — Acor ; Cic ; Cim.; Hydroc. ac.; Hyper.; Ign.;
Nux v.; Cinanthe; Phasost.

Terminal stage ~-Op.; Plumb.; Zine. m.

Tonic: isthotonos — Apis; Cie; Cina; Cupr. ac.; Cupr.
m.;, dhvdroc. ac.; Ign.; Ipec.; Mag. p.; Mosch.; Nicot.;
Nug. 0; Physost.: ; Plat.; Solan. c.; Solan. n.; Stram.;
Strych.; "Upas; Ver. v.

Uremie— ‘Carb. ac.; Cic.; Cupr. ars.; Glon.; Helleb.; Hydroc.

ete. c.; CEnanthe; O?7.; Plumb.; Piloc.; Urt, See
Orit System.
Vaccinatiéh — Sil.; Thuya.
Whoaging cough - = Cupr. m.
Niqrase Cic.; Cina; Hyos.; Indigo; Kati br.; Sabad.; San-
é ton; Spig.; Tanac.

MITANTS — Beginning in face; unilateral; shallow
rie hing --- Cina.
Beginning in fingers, toes, radiates all over --- Cupr, m.

NERVOUS SYSTEM 1043

Bladder, chest, intestines, striated muscles, chiefly in-
volved; drowsiness, rigid limbs — Bell.

Calves of legs; clenched thumbs — Cupr. m.

Chorea-like — Sticta.

Conyulsive jerkings, of limbs and head — Bufo; Cham; Cic.;

yos.

Cyanosis — Cupr. ac.: Iydroc. ac.

Extremities cold—- Bell.; Helleb.; Uydroc. ac.; Nicot;
CGénanthe.

Eyes half open, upturned; breathing, deep, stertorous — Op.

Eyes turned downward -- -f.th.

Fevers skin hot, dry; child frets, screams, gnaws its fists
—- Acon.

Followed by collapse — Nicot.

Followed by deep sleep — Cupr, ac.; Of.; Zine m

Followed by paresis — Acon ; Elaps; J onic.; Plumb. m.

Followed by restlessness — Cupr. m

No cerebral congestion -- yn.

No fever — Ign; Mag. p, Zinc. m.

Pale face — Zinc. m.

Preceded, by gastro-intestinal symptoms — AZth.; Cupr. ars.

Preceded, by restlessness —- Arg n.

Shrieks, screams, before, and during — .!pis; Cina; Cupr.
m; Helieb., Op.

Terrible pains — Plumb. chrom.

Tremor, spasm of glottis, febrile paroxysm -- 1gn

Twitchings, cramps, gastro-enteric symptoms -~ Nux v.

Twitchings of single muscles or groups, especially of upper
body -— Stram.

Twitchings over entire body — Hyos.

Violent vomiting — .‘fth.; Upas.

With consciousness -— Cina; Nux v.; Plat.; Stram.; Strych.

Without consciousness — Bell; Cale. c¢.; Ctc., Cupr. ac.
Cupr. ars.; Cupr m=; Glon.; Hydroc. ac.; Hyos.; Mosch.
(Enanthe; Op , Stram.

Worse from touch, motion — Cic.; Ign.; Nux v.; Stram.
Strych,

DEFICIENT REACTION --- Ambra; Am. c.; Cale. c.; Camph
Caps.; Carbo v., Carbon. s.; Cupr. m.; Helleb.; Iod.; Laur.
Nat. ars.; Op.. Psor.; Radium; Sul., Tub.; Val.; X-ray
Zinc. m. :

EXOPHTHALMIC GOITRE (Basedow’s disease) — Amyl
Antipyr.; Ars.; Ars. iod; Aur.; Bell., Brom.; Cact.
Cale. c.; Colch.; Ephedra; Ferr. iod.; Ferr. m.; Ferr. p.
Fucus; Glon.; Jod.; Lycop.; Nat. m.; Piloc; Pineal gl

* ext.; Spart. s.; Spong.; Thyr. ? .

MAL-DE-MER (seasickness) —— Amy!; Apomorph.; Aqua mar.
Arn. Cereum ox.; Chloral; Coce.; Cucurb.; Glon.: Kal
br.: Kali p.; Morph.; Nicot.; Nux wv; Petrol.; Staph.
Tab.; ‘Thea; Ther. See Vomiting (Stomach).

MORPHINISM — Apomorph.; Avena; Can. ind.; Cim.; Ipec.
Lob. infl.; Macrot., Nat. p.; Passifi.

MORVAN’S DISEASE -- Aur.: Aur. mur.; Bar. mur: Lach.
Sec.; Sil; Thuya.
1044 NERVOUS SYSTEM

NERVOUS AFFECTIONS — Of cigar makers: Gels.
Nervous affections of girls, at puberty — Caul.; Cm.
Nervous affections of onanists — (els.; Kali p

Nervous affections, from excessive delicacy and sensitive-
ness of the senses — Cupr

Nervous affections, from suppressed discharges, in the
psoric — Asaf.; Merc, s.

Nervous affections, from tobacco, in sedentary persons
— Sep

Nervous affections, from worms -— Cina; Psor.; Sabad.

NERVOUSNESS —In general: Abies n.; Absinth.; .4con.; Al-
fal. Ambra, Amyl; Anac.; Aqui: Arn.; Ars.; Asaf.
efsar, Avena; Camph. monobr., Cham., Cium.; Coca
Cocaine; Coff.; Cupr.; Cyprip.; Eup ar; Gels.; Glycerin
Gossyp. ; Hedeoma;: Hyos , Ign.; Indol; Kal: br.; Kali
Kali .: Mag p.; Niccol.; Nux m; Nua 7.; Oophor.
Op.; Phos.; Puls.; Santon.: Senec ; Sil: Stram.; Strvch
Thea; Ther : Trost., Val.; Nal. am; Xanth.; Zinc. m
See Moods (Mind).

Nervousness, hypersensitiveness ofcon , Ambra: Angust.
Ant. ¢.3 Apis; Aquil.; Asaf.; Asar, Arn; Atrop. ; Aur.
Rell.: Bor.; Bry. ; Calad.; Cale. sil.; Camph.; Can. ind.
Canth.; Cham.: Chin. mui. ; Chrysanth. ; Cm; Cinch.
Coce.;: Cof.., Colch., Con.+ eet Hep., Ay per.§ Ign.
prsticia: Kali br.; 3 Kali C3 i, HRs Lac c.; Lac Lyssin

orph ; Nux v.; Op.; Brow hos. hydr.; Pike: Puls
Sep.; Sil; Spig.; Stann.; 3 Staph.; Strych.; Sul; Tar. hh.
Teucr. » Ther; Tub.; Zine. m.

Nervousness, hypersensitiveness, to cold air, drafts —
Acetan. ; Acon ; Agar.; Allium s.; Ammon; Anac.; Ant
c.; Bac.; Bad.; Bar. c, Bell.; Bor.; Calc. c.; Calc. sil.
Calend.; Camph.; Caps.; Carbo vi; Caust.; Cham.; Cinch.
Cistus; ‘Con.; Cupr. m.; Graph., Hep.; Kali c.; Kali m.
Merc.; Mes. : Nat. c.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Nit. sp. d.
Nux wv; Physost.; Psor.; Rhus t.; Rumer; Sep.; Sal.
Strych.; Sul.; Tub.

Nervousness, hy rsensitive, to least pain -—- 4con.; Arn.

Aur, mur.; Cacts Cham., Cinch.; Coff.; Colch.; fe .
Hyper.; ul Ign., Kali p.; _Latrod.; Mag. Pe Med.; a.
Mez.; Morph.; Mosch.; Nux m.; Nux v.; Phos.; ‘pew’ Ss
Val.; Zine. v.

Nervousness, tremulousness, faintness — Abies c.; Ant. t.
Aquiks Arg. n., Atn.; i; Ars.; Asar.; Caul.; Crm.; Cocc.
Ge Hyos. ; ‘Latrod.3 Med.; Mosch.; Nux v.; Puls.
Raph. ; Sep.; Strych.; Sul; Sul. ac.; Tar. he; Val.

te,

NEURASTHENIA (nervous prostration) — Remedies in gen.
eral: Agn.; Alfal.; Anac.; Anhal.; Arg. ».; Asaf.; Asar.
Avena; Cai. C3 Caic. Pai Can. ind. Cinch.; Cob: ; Coca
Coce.; Cur.: Fluor. ac.; Gels.: Glycerin; Graph.; Helon.
Hyper. ; Ign; Kali p.; Yach.; Lecith.; Lob. purp.; Mosch.

« Nat, m.; Nux v5 ‘Onosm.; Ox. ac.; Phos.; Physost.

Picr. ae.; Pip. m.; Plumb.; Puls.; Sacchar. of rcol
ac.; Scutel.; Sil.; Stann.; "Staph. 3 Strych. weit
Tub,; T urnera; Verbena; Xanth.: Zine, Zan p.

Zine. pier. See Adynamia.
1044 NERVOUS SYSTEM

NERVOUS AFFECTIONS — Of cigar makers: Gels.
Nervous affections of girls, at puberty — Caul.; Cm.
Nervous affections of onanists — (els.; Kali p

Nervous affections, from excessive delicacy and sensitive-
ness of the senses — Cupr

Nervous affections, from suppressed discharges, in the
psoric — Asaf.; Merc, s.

Nervous affections, from tobacco, in sedentary persons
— Sep

Nervous affections, from worms -— Cina; Psor.; Sabad.

NERVOUSNESS —In general: Abies n.; Absinth.; .4con.; Al-
fal. Ambra, Amyl; Anac.; Aqui: Arn.; Ars.; Asaf.
efsar, Avena; Camph. monobr., Cham., Cium.; Coca
Cocaine; Coff.; Cupr.; Cyprip.; Eup ar; Gels.; Glycerin
Gossyp. ; Hedeoma;: Hyos , Ign.; Indol; Kal: br.; Kali
Kali .: Mag p.; Niccol.; Nux m; Nua 7.; Oophor.
Op.; Phos.; Puls.; Santon.: Senec ; Sil: Stram.; Strvch
Thea; Ther : Trost., Val.; Nal. am; Xanth.; Zinc. m
See Moods (Mind).

Nervousness, hypersensitiveness ofcon , Ambra: Angust.
Ant. ¢.3 Apis; Aquil.; Asaf.; Asar, Arn; Atrop. ; Aur.
Rell.: Bor.; Bry. ; Calad.; Cale. sil.; Camph.; Can. ind.
Canth.; Cham.: Chin. mui. ; Chrysanth. ; Cm; Cinch.
Coce.;: Cof.., Colch., Con.+ eet Hep., Ay per.§ Ign.
prsticia: Kali br.; 3 Kali C3 i, HRs Lac c.; Lac Lyssin

orph ; Nux v.; Op.; Brow hos. hydr.; Pike: Puls
Sep.; Sil; Spig.; Stann.; 3 Staph.; Strych.; Sul; Tar. hh.
Teucr. » Ther; Tub.; Zine. m.

Nervousness, hypersensitiveness, to cold air, drafts —
Acetan. ; Acon ; Agar.; Allium s.; Ammon; Anac.; Ant
c.; Bac.; Bad.; Bar. c, Bell.; Bor.; Calc. c.; Calc. sil.
Calend.; Camph.; Caps.; Carbo vi; Caust.; Cham.; Cinch.
Cistus; ‘Con.; Cupr. m.; Graph., Hep.; Kali c.; Kali m.
Merc.; Mes. : Nat. c.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Nit. sp. d.
Nux wv; Physost.; Psor.; Rhus t.; Rumer; Sep.; Sal.
Strych.; Sul.; Tub.

Nervousness, hy rsensitive, to least pain -—- 4con.; Arn.

Aur, mur.; Cacts Cham., Cinch.; Coff.; Colch.; fe .
Hyper.; ul Ign., Kali p.; _Latrod.; Mag. Pe Med.; a.
Mez.; Morph.; Mosch.; Nux m.; Nux v.; Phos.; ‘pew’ Ss
Val.; Zine. v.

Nervousness, tremulousness, faintness — Abies c.; Ant. t.
Aquiks Arg. n., Atn.; i; Ars.; Asar.; Caul.; Crm.; Cocc.
Ge Hyos. ; ‘Latrod.3 Med.; Mosch.; Nux v.; Puls.
Raph. ; Sep.; Strych.; Sul; Sul. ac.; Tar. he; Val.

te,

NEURASTHENIA (nervous prostration) — Remedies in gen.
eral: Agn.; Alfal.; Anac.; Anhal.; Arg. ».; Asaf.; Asar.
Avena; Cai. C3 Caic. Pai Can. ind. Cinch.; Cob: ; Coca
Coce.; Cur.: Fluor. ac.; Gels.: Glycerin; Graph.; Helon.
Hyper. ; Ign; Kali p.; Yach.; Lecith.; Lob. purp.; Mosch.

« Nat, m.; Nux v5 ‘Onosm.; Ox. ac.; Phos.; Physost.

Picr. ae.; Pip. m.; Plumb.; Puls.; Sacchar. of rcol
ac.; Scutel.; Sil.; Stann.; "Staph. 3 Strych. weit
Tub,; T urnera; Verbena; Xanth.: Zine, Zan p.

Zine. pier. See Adynamia.
NERVOUS SYSTEM 1045

Cerebral symptoms, unable to apply mind — 4nac.. Aur.
Cale. c; Gels.; Kah p, Nux v.3 Phos. ac.; Phos.; Pter.
ac.; Sil.; Scutel. See Brain Fag (Mind).

Gastric form — Anac.; Gent ; Nux v.; Strych. p.

Hypochondriacal tendency — Aur.; Coca; Con.; Kali br;

at. m.; Sul.

In females— Alet.:, Ambra; Ars; Aur.; Bellis; Cale. c.;
Cinch.; Cocc.; Epiph., Fers.; Helon.; Wyos.; Ign.; loud.;
Kali fi Lach.; Lyc.; Mag. c, Mag. p.; Phos, ac.; Peer.
ac, Puls; Sep.; Sil: Sul.; Zine. v.

Insomnia — Ambra; Ais; Aur.; Crm, Coff.; Nux v.; Zine.
p. See Sleep.

Sexual origin — Agar.: 4qn.; Anac.; Cinch.: Coca; Gels.;
Groph.; Leeith.; Lye.; Nux v; Onosm.; Phos. ac.; Phos.;
Picr. ac.; Plat.; Sabal; Selen.; Sep.: Staph.; Thymol;
Turncra; Zinc. picr. See Female Sexual System.

NEUROSES — Of children: Passifl.

Neuroses of professional men — Gcls.

TREMORS — Twitchings, trembling: Absinth.; Agat.; Agancin;
Anac; Ant. t.; Apis; Arg. n.; Ars.; Bell.; Camph.; Can.
ind.; Caust.; Cham.; Cic.; Cim.; Cinch.; Cocc.; Cod.;
Ferr. pi Gels.; Hep.; Hyos.; Hyose. hydrobr.; Ign.; lod.;
Kali br; Kali p.; Lach.; Latrod.; Lith. chlor.; lye.
Med; Merc. s.; Morph.; Mosch.; Nat. m.; Nur v.; Op;
Oxytr.; Phos. ac.; Phos., Physust.; Plumb.; Rhus t.;
Scutel ; Sil.; Stram; Sual.; Tar. h.; Tub.; Val.; Veratrin;
Viscum alb.; Zinc. m., Zinc. p.

Alcoholic — Ant. t.; Cocaine; Cocce.; Nux v.

Disseminated sclerosis — Acet. ac.; Ars.; Hyos. hydrubi,

From smoking -— Kali c, Nit ac.; Sep.

Senile —- Avena; Can. ind.; Cocaine; Phos.

NERVES: NEURITIS (Inflammation) — Acon.; 7Esc.; Ananth.;
Arg. n.; Arn; Ars.; Bell.; Bellis; Benzin. din.; Berd. v.;
Carbon. s.; Caust.; Ced.; Cepa; Cim.; Con.; Ferr. p.;
Gels.; Hyper.; Merc.; Nux v.; Pareira; Phos. ac.; Phos.;
Plumb.; Plumb, phos; Rhus t.; Sang.; Stann.; Strych.;
Thall.; Urt.; Zinc. p.

TYPE — Alcoholic: Nux v.; Strych.
Diphtheritic — Gels. .
Of anterior crural — Parcira.
Of circumflex — Sang.
Of lesser sciatic —- Esc.
Of lumbo-sacral plexus — Berb. v.
Of upper dorsal roots — Ananth.
Injuries of nerves — Bellis; Cepa; Hyper.; Phos. ac.
Multiple — Bov.; Con.; Morph.; Thallium.
Traumatic — Arn.; Calend.; Cepa; Hyper.
NEURALGIA — Remedies in general: Acetan.; Jconitin; Acon.
Agar.; Am. picr.; Am. val,; Amyl; Aran.; Arg. n.; Arn.
Ars.; Atrop.; Bell.; Bry.; Cajup.; Can. ind.; Caust.; Cepa
Cham.; Chel.; Chin. ars.; Chin, s.; Ced.; Cim.; Cinch.
3 Col; Commecl.; €on.;_ Cornus fi; Diose.+ Gels.
Glon.; Gnaph.; Hyper.; Ign.; Ipec.; Kali ars.; Kali bich.
Kali ferrocy.; Kali iod.; Kal.; Lach.; Mag..c.; Mag. 'p.
Menyanth.; Mes.; Morph.; Nat. m.; Niecol. s.; Nax-v.
Onosm.; Ox. ac.; Paris; Phos.; Phyt.; Plant.; Plat.
1046 . NERVOUS SYSTEM

Prun. sp.; Puls.; Ran. b.; Rhod.; Sil; Spig.; Stann.;
Staph.; Sul.; Sumb.; Thea; Ther.; Thuya; Tub.; Val.;
Ver. a.; Verbasc.; Xanth.; Zinc p.; Zinc. v.

CAUSE — TYPE — Anemia: drs.; Cinch.; Ferr.; Kali ferrocy.;

uls.

Chronic cases, or later life — Arn.; Kreos.;  Phos.; Sul;

uya.

Climacteric — Lach.

Gout, rheumatism —Cim.; Cokh; Col; Kal.; Ran. b.;
Rhod., Rhus ¢.; Sul.

Idiopathic cases — Acon.; Ars.

Influenza, debility — Ars.

Malaria — Aran.; .4rs.; Ced.; Chin. s ; Cinch.; Menyanth.;
Nat. m.; Niccol. s.; Stann.; Sul.

Recent origin, gccurring in young —Acon; Bell; Col.;
Gels ; Kal.; Spi

Syphilis -- Kah vee Mez.; Phyt.

Traumatic, in amputated limbs — Am. m.. <Arn.; Cepa;
fiyper., Kal.; Phos. ac, Symphyt.

Zoster, after — Mes. ; Morph.

LOCATION — Brachial plexus, cervico-brachial: Acon +3
Bry.; Cepa; Cham.; Coccus; Corn. f1.; qT per.; Kal.;
Mere.; Nux v., Pars; Rhus t.; Sul.; Tereb Por. a.

Cervico-occipital - Bell; Bry ; Chin.’ s; 3 Cinch 5 Nux v.;
Puls.; Zinc. p. .

Ciliary — Cum., Gels; Mez.; Nat. m; Spig. See Ciliary
Neuralgia (Eye).

Crural anterior - Am m.: Coff.; Col., Gels.; Gnaph.; Limul.;
Nat. ars.; QUsnanthe; Solan. lyc,; Spig.; Steph., Sul.;
Nanth,

Infra-orbital — .17g. n.; Dell.; Mag. p.; Mez.; Nux v.; Phos.
See Trifacial.

Intercoastal — Acon.; Aran; Arn.; Ars.; Ars. lod.; Asclep.
t.; Aster.;  Bell.; Brom; ere ; Chel.; Cim.; ” Gaul th. ;
Mag. p.; Menthol; Mez.; orph. : Nux v.; Patis; Phos. ;
Puls.; Ran. b.; Rhod.; enh inc. m.

Lumbo-abdominal — Atan.; ; Bell. ; Clem.; Col.; Cupr. ars.;
Tam.; Nux v.

Phrenic -— Bell.

SCIATICA -— Acetan. ; Acon.; Am m.; i Ange. ; Arn; Ars.; > Ars.
met.; Ars. s.r.; Bell.; Bry ; Ca 8-5 on, oxy.; Carbon.
s.¢ Cham.; Cinch; Col; Cotyled. Vinee ; Gau the Gels. ;
Gins.; Gnaph. ; Hymosa; Hyper.; dan.? indigo; Irie; Kali

c.; Kali tod.; Kali p.; Vac c; 3 Mag. Pei, ian f
Nyctanth.; Nux v.; «> Pall.; Phyt.; é bint, plyg.

Rhus t.; Ruta; Sal. ac.; 3 Sep; Staph. rye ah i sui
rub.; Syph.; Tellur.; + .Tereb.; Theine; Thuya; er.
a; ‘Viscum: Xanth.; Zinc. v.

Sciatica, acute cases ten. .) Bry.} Cham.; Cot.} inl
Sciatica, chronic cases — Ars. ; Calc. Gy Kali iod.; Lyc.;
Plumb.; Rhus ¢.; Sul.; Zinc. m.
Selntica, Fheumatic -- Acon; Bry.; Cim.; Guaiac.; Hymosa;
-; Rhus ¢.
Sciatica, syphilitic —- Kali tod.; Merc. c.; Phyt.
Soigticn, uterine— Bell.; Ferr.; Graph.; Merc.; Puls.; "Sep.; ;
NERVOUS SYSTEM 1047

Sciatica, vertebral origin — Nat. m.; Phos.; Sil; Sul.; Tel-
ur. ’

Spermatic cord — Clem.; Col; Ham.; Ob an.; Qx ac;
Rhod.; Spong. See Male Sexual System.

Spine —— Paris. Sec Spine.

Sub-orbital —- Causit., Colch.; Con.; Kali'«; Phos. “See
Trifacial. ‘

Supra-orbital — Arg. n.; Asaf.; Ced.; Chel.; Chin. s.; Cim.;
Kali bich., Mag. p.; Morph.; Nusx v., Ran. b.; Spig.;
Stann.; Theine; Tongo; Viola od. See Prosopalgia’ (Face).

Teeth—- Kreos.; Merc.; Mez.; Plant.; Staph.; Verbasc., Sce
Odontalga (Teeth).

Trifacial—Acon.; Amyl; Aran, Ary. a. Ars.; Arundo;
Bell.; Cact.; Ced.; Cepa; Cham.; Chel; Cim.; Cinch.;
Colch.; Col.; Ferr.; Gels.; Glon.; Kal.; Mag. p.; Merc.;
Mez.; Nat. s.; Nux v.; Phos.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Sabal; Sang ;
Spig.; Stann.; Thuya; Tongo: Ver. a; Verbase., Zinc.
m.; Zinc. v. See Prosopalgia (Face).

Ulnar -— Hyper ; Kal.; Lyeopers.; Oxytr.; Rhus t.

TYPE OF PAIN — Bruised: Apis; Arn.; Bellis; Corn. fl; Phyt ;
uta.

Burning —- Acon.; Anthiac.; Apis; rs; Caps.; Cepa;’ Sal
ac.; Spig.

Cramp-like, constrictive —- Am. m ; Caul.; Cim.; Co}: Con;
Cupr. m.; Gnaph.; Iris; Mag. p., Nux v.; Plat., Plumb ;
Stann.; Thuya; Verbesc.

Drawing — Cham., Cinch.; Col.; Phos.; Puls.; Spig.; Siann.,
Sul.; Verbasc See Tearing.

Intermittent — Ars.; Chin. s.; Cinch, Col, Cupr. m.; Ign.;
Mag. p.; Nux v.; Spig., Sul See Periodncal,

Lancinating, electric shock like— Acon.; Beil.; Caust.; Cim.;
Col.; Daphne; Gels.; Mag. p; Nux v.; Phyt.; Plumb.;
Sirveh.;: Sul. ac; Ver. a.; Verbasc., Nanth.; Zinc. p.

Localized, in spots —Ign.; Ox. ac.

Onset gradual, cessation gradual — Arg. n.; Plat; Stann.;
Sul.; Ver. a

Onset sudden, cessation sudden — Bell.; Carb. ac.; Chrom.
ac; Col.; Kah bich ; Mag. p.; Ovig. p.; Oxytr.

Periodical -— .4ran , Avs., Ced.; Chin. s.; Chrom. ac.; Kali
bich.; Niccol. s.; Nux v.; Ox. ac.; Parth.; Sal. ac.; Spig ;
Sul.; Toxicophis; Verbasc.

Plug-like — Anac. .

Severe, drives him frantic -— Acon.; Arg. n.; Are; Beli;
Chom.; Carb. ac.; Cinch.; Coff.; Coleh.; Col.; Kreos.;
Morph.; Nux v.; Ox. ac.; Spig.; Ver. a.

Splinter-like —Ign.; Rhus t.

Tearing, shifting, darting, shooting — sc ; Arg. n.; Ars.;
Bell.; Bry. Caust.; Cham.; Cinch.; Col.; Diosc.; Gels.;
Gnaph.; Ign.;_Kal.; Mag. p.; Mez.; Nux _v.; Paraf.;
Phos.; Phyt.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Ruta; Sang.; Spig.; Tereb.

Tearing, shooting, along tracts, of large nerves —— Gels.

Tearing, shooting, to chest, trunk — Corn, fi.

Tearing, shooting, to extremities — Col.; Graph.; Kal.; Pall.

Tearing, shooting, to face, shoulder, pelvis — Arundo,
1048 NERVOUS SYSTEM

Tearing, shooting, upwards — Kal.
CONCOMITANTS — Alternates with pain elsewhere; not
ply rooted cases -—— Ign.

Anesthesia — Acon.; Ars.; Kal,

Anguish, restlessness — Acon.; ; Ars.

Arms feel cold, swollen, paralyzed - - Ver. a.

Beginning, in pneumogastric nerve disorders — Arn.

Cardiac anxiety — Spig.

Coldness — Agar.; Ars.; Menyanth.; Mez.; Nat. m.; Nux v.;

Plat.; Rhus t.; Sep.; Spig.; Ver.

Congestive symptoms — Acon.; Bell; Gels.

Eructations, gastric symptoms — Ver. a.; Verbasc.

Face pale, restlessness, sweat — Spig.

Face red -— Acon.; Bell.; Cham.; Verbasc.

Fainting, sudden — Cham. ; Hep ; Morph.

Heat of one part, coldness of other — Pimenta.

Hyperesthesia — Bell,; Coff.; Ign.; Kali iod.; Tereb.

Lachrymation — Chel ; Mez.; Puis. ; Rhus t.

Mania following — Cim.

Muscular contraction, spasmodic — Am. m.; i Bell,; Gels.;
Mag. p.; Nux v.; Plat.; Plumb. m,; Zinc.

Nervous a, itation —Acon.; Am. val.; Ars.; ; "Cham. ; Coff.;
Gels.; Mag. p.; Spig.

Numbness —4con.: Agar.; Caust.; Cham; Co!.: Glon.;
Gnaph ; Graph.; Kal, Led.; Lith. c.; Merc.; Mez; Plat.;
Rhus t.; Sep; ‘Spig.

Salivation, stiff neck — Mez.

Skin, feele pinched — Sint ac

Torpor — Plat.

Weakness — 4rs.; Cinch.; Colch.; Gels ; Kal.; Ver. a.

MODALITIES — AGGRAVATION: Bending back — Caps.

Cold —irs., Bell ; Caps.; Cinch.; Col.; Kali bich.; Mag. b;
Rhus t.; Ruta.

Exertion, mental — Kal.

Jar, concussion — Bell.; Caps.; Spig.; Tellur.

Left side — Acon.; Ars.: Caust.; Ced.; Colch.; Col.; Iris;
Kali bich ; Mez.; Morph.; ‘Nux v.; ; Rhus t.3 Spig.;

ump.

Lying down — Am. m.; Gnaph

Lying, on affected side -_ Kal iod.

Midnight — Ars.; Bell.; Mez.; Sul.

Morning — Acon.; Chin, s.; Nux v

Morning, 9 A .M.-4 P. M. — Verbasc.

Motion -— Acon.; i Ars.; Beil.; Bry.; Cinch.; Coff.; Colch.;
Col.; Gnaph.; Nux v.; Phyt.; ; Ran. b.; Spig.: V erbasc.
Night _ Acon.: : Ars.; Bell.; Cham.; Cim. > Coff.; Ginseng;
Ign.; Kali tod.; Mag. b.; Merc.; Mez.: Piat.; ; Phyt.;

Puls.; Rhus t.; Ruta; sat ac; Syph.; ‘Tellus.

Noon (12-1) — Nat. m.; Sul

Pressure -— Ars.; Gels.; Plumb.; Verbasc.; Zinc. m.;

Rest, sitting — Ar. m.; Ar&; Rhus t.; Val,

Right side --- Beil.; Chel.; Diose.; Kal.: Lyc.; Mag. p.;
Morph.; Puls.: Ban. b.: Sul. acs Teliur.

Standing, resting féot on fisor — Bell.; Val.
ogritg: or straightening limb after” previous exertion —
NERVOUS SYSTEM 1049

Talking, sneezing, change of temperature — Verbasc.

Touch — Ars.; Bell.; Bry.; Cinch.; Col.; Lach.; Mag. p.;
Mez.; Nux v.; Plumb.; Spig

Touching or closing teeth — Verbasc.

Warmth —Cham.; Mez.; Plumb.; Puls.; Xanth.

AMELIORATION — Bending backward: Diosc.

Bending forward — Col,
losin, es — Bry.

Cold aly ae Puls y

Daybreak — Syph.

Flexing thigh, on abdomen — Gnaph.

Knee ling down, pressing head firmly against floor —

ang.

Lying still, rest— Am. m.; Bry.; Diosc.; Kreos.; Mag. p.;
Nux v.

Motion, walking-—- Am. m.; .4rs.; Diosc; Ign.; Kali bich.;
Kali iod.; Mag. c.; Ox. ac.; Puls.; Rhus t.; Sep.; Sul.;

al.

Pressure — Ars.; Bell.; Bry.; Coff.; Col.; Mag. p.; Meny-
anth.; Mes.; Nux v.; Plumb.; Spig.

Rubbing — Acon.

Sitting — Bell.; Gnaph.

Warmth — 4rs.; Bell.; Col.; Mag. p.; Morph ; Nux v.; Phos.
Rhup t.

SLEEPING SICKNESS — aArs.; Atoxyl.

SPINAL CORD — Anemia: Agar.; Plumb.; Sec.; Strych. p.
ar. h,

Burning -— Agar.;  Alum.; Alum. sil; Ars.;  Bell.; Gels.
Guaco, Kali c.; Kah ferrocy.; Kali p.; Med; Nux v.
Phos. ac.; Phos ; Physost.; Pier. ac.; Strych. p.; Sul.
Zinc. m,

Coldness — Cim.; Strych.

Concussion — 4rn.; Bellis; Cic ; Con.; Hyvper.; Physost.

Congestion — Absinth.; 4con.; Agar.; Arn.; Bell; Gels.
Hyper.; Nux v., Onosm.; Oxytr.; Phos.; Physost.; Sec.
Sil.; Strych.; Tab.; Ver v

DEGENERATION (Softening, sclerosis, etc.)— Alum.; Alum.
sil.; Arg. n.; Aur.; Aur. mur, Bar. mur.; Carbon, s,; Naja
Ox. ac.; Phos , Physost.; Pier. ac.; Plumb. iod. ; Plumb. m.
Zinc. See Locomotor Ataxia
Degeneration, lateral sclerosis-— 4rg. n.; Cupr.; Hyper.
‘lumb.
De ration, multiple sclerosis — Arg. n.; Atrup.; Aur.
ar. c.; Bell; Calc.; Caust.; Chel.; Crot.; Gels.; Lathyr.
Lye; Nus v.; Phos.; Physost.; Plumb.; Sil.; Strych.; Sul.
Tar. h.; Thuya.
Hemorrhage in — Acon.; Arn.; Beil.; Lach,; Nux v.; Sec.
HYPERESTHESIA — Abrot.; Acon.; Adgar.; Apis; Arg. n.3 Ars.
Bell.; Bry.; Chsn' ars.; Chin, s.; Csm.; Cocc.; Got Hep.
Hyper.; Lach.; Lac_c.; Lob. infi.; gr Med.; Menisp.,
Nat. m.; Ox. ac; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Physost.; Ped.; Ran.
b.; Rhus t.; Sec., Senec. jac.; Sil; Strych. p.; Sul; Tar.

hk; Tellur.; Ther.; Viscum; Zinc. m.
1050 NERVOUS SYSTEM

Hyperesthesia, between vertebrae — Chin. 5.; Nat. m.; Ther.

Hyperesthesia from using arms in sewing, typewriting,
piano playing — Agar.; Cim., Ran. b.

Hyperesthesia, middorsal — Strych. p.; Tellur.

Hyperesthesia, sacral — Lob. infl.

Hyperesthesia, sits sideways to prevent pressure on spine

— Chin. s.; Ther.; Zinc. m.

Hyperesthesia, spasmodic pain in chest and cardiac

region from touch — Tar. h.
INFLAMMATION (meningitis) — Acon.; Bell.; Bry.; Kali iod.;

Merc.; Nat. s.; Ox. ac.; Ver. v. Sce Mythtis

Inflammation (myelitis) — dcon.; Arg. n.: Arn.; Ars.; Bell.;
Bellis; Bry.; Chel.; Cic.; Con.; Crot.; Dulce.; Gels.; Hyos.;
Hyper.; Kali iod.; Lach ; ‘Lathyr.; Mere., Naja; Nat s.;
Nux v.; Ox. ac.; Phos.; Physost.; Picr. ac.; plume m,
Rhus t.; Sec.; Stram.; Strych.; Ver. a; Zinc. p.

Inflammation, chronic (myelitis) -- Ars.; Crot.; Lathyr.; Ox.
ac ; Plumb. m.; Strych.; Thallium.

Inflammation, spasmodic form — Arg. n.; Ars.; Chel.; Merc ;

er. a
IRRITATION — Agar.; Ambrai Arg n.; Arn.; Bell ; Chin, ais.;

Chin. s.; Cim.; Cob.; Cocc., Cupr ; Gels.; Guaco; Hyper.
Jgn.; Wali c., Kali p.; Naja; at, m.; Nur v.; Ox. ac.;
Phos; FPhysost.; Picr. ac; Plat; Puls.; kan. b.; Sec ;
Sep.; Sil.; Staph.; Strych. p.;_Sul.; Tor. h.; Tellur.;
Ther.; Tub. ; ; Zinc. m.; Zine v. See Hyperesthesia.

Irritation, from sexual excesses — Agar.; Kali p.

LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA— Agar.; 4Alumen; Alum. chlor.; Alwm.;
Am. m.; Angust. ; Arag.; Arg n.; Ars.; Ars, br.5 Atrop.;
alur, mur., Bell.; Can. ind.; Catbon. s.; Carbo v.; Caust.;
Chrom. 8.3 Condur.; 3 Con.; Cur.; 3; Dub.; Ferr. prer.; Fluor.

: Gels.; Hyos.; Tgn. ; ; Kali br.; Kali ‘1od.; Lathyr.; s Lyc.-
Mag. f., Merce. c.; Nat. iod.; Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Onosm ;
Ox. ac., Pedic.; Phos. ; Phos. hydr. ; 3; Physost.; Picr. ac.;
Picrot.: Plumb. m.; > Plum. phos.; Rhus t.3 Rutaj Sabad. ;
Sec.; Sil; Stram.; Strych.; Tar. h.; Thall .; Thiosin.;
Zine. pes Zinc. s.

CONCOMITANTS — Early sta, fe: Angust.; Atrop.; Bell. ; Con.;
gn.; Nux v.; Sec.; Strych.; Tar. h.; Zinc. m-; ; Zine. s.
Enuresis and urinary symptgms— Bell.; Beib. v.; Equis.;

Ferr. p. See Urinary System.
Fulgurating pains — Acetan.; Aisc.; Agar.; Alum.; Am. m.;
ngust.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Ats. iod.; reps Bar. m3 3; Bell.;
Berb. v.: Dig ; Fluor. ac.; Guaiac.; Yos.; Ign,; ; Kal.;
‘4 Lyc.; Merc, c.; Nit. ac.; Nux m.; Nur z.,; - Phes.; Phusost.;
" itp lloc.; Plumb, iod.; Plumb. m.; "Sabad.; "Sant.; "See.; Sil;
Stront. C3 Strych.: Thall.: Thiosin.; 3 Zine. m.; Zinc. Pet
IMC. Su
tric syinptoms — Arg. n.; Bell.; Carbo v.; Ign.; Lyc.;
wx v.; Thiosin,
Muscular. (Weakness, anesthesia of skin, and muscular
sense 4 Can. sind.
Ocular symptoms — Bell.; Con.; Ferr. picr.; Phos. See Eye.
Sex: tement — Kali br.; Pier. ac.; Phos.
Sypl ‘cases --- Kali iod.; Merc. c.; Nit. ac.; Sec.

NERVOUS SYSTEM 1051

Ulcer of heel — Sil.
Vesical and anal symptoms Alum; Fluor. uc; Ign; Nux
v.; Strych.; Tar h.; Thiosin.

PAIN IN SPINE — Abrot ; Acon.; Adon. v.; dua, Ary. n.;
Cact.; Cim.; Gels.: Hyper.; Lact. v.; Lob. syph 3 Menisp j
Niccol. s.; Ox. uc., Paraf.; Physost.; Strych , Sec; Tar.
h.; Ther.; Ziic. m. See Backache (Locomotor System).

PARESIS— Coce.; Con ; Irid.; Plectranth.; Plumb ind., Sec;
Strych. See Paralysis.

TETANY — Acon.; Coce.; Graph.; Tyc.; Mere; Plumb.; Sec.;

Solan, n
TETANUS —- Aconitin: Acon ; Amy]; Angus! ; Am. > Bell;
Calend. ; Camph.; Carbon. s.; Chloral; cie.; Coce.; Con.;

Cupr.; Cur., Gels ; Hydroc. ac.; Hyos., Hyper.; Ign,; lpec.:
Kali br.; Lach.; Laur.; Lyssin; Mag. p.; Morph.: ‘Mosch.:
Nicot.; Nur v.; Ginanthe; Op.; Ox. ac; Passifl.; "Physost, ;
Phyt.: Plat.; Scorpio; Stram.; Strych.; Tab; Tereb.; > The-
bain; Upas, Ver a.; Zinc, m= See Tiismus (Mace),

TIc CONVULSIF — Arg. 1.3; Hyos.; QWaur; Lye.; Sep.; Tar.
.> Zine.

WEAKNESS OF SPINE — #sc.; Alum. sil.; Arg. n.;_ Bar.

Calc. #.; Coce ; Con., Nat. m.; Phos.; Pier? ac.; Selen.;

Si; Strych.; Zine. pier. See Back (Locomotor System).
GENERALITIES

ABSCESS — Acute: Acon.; Ananth., Anthrac.; Apis; Arn.;
Ars.; Bell.; Cale. hypoph.; Calc. s.; Calend.; Carb. ac.
Chin, s; Cinch.; Crot.; Fluor. ac; Hep.; Hippoz.; Lach.,
Lapis alb.; Lyc.; Merc. s, Mvyrist. seb.; Nit. ac.; Phos.
ae i Phos.; Rhus t.; Sil.; Sil. mar.; Syph.; Sul; Tar. c.

espa.

About bones — Asaf ; Aur.; Calc. fl.; Cale. hypoph.; Cale. p.
Fluor. ac.; Mang.; Phos; Puls.; Sil.; Symphyt.

About Joints — Calc. hypoph.; Sil.

Chronic— Arn.; Ars.; Calc. c.; Calc. fi.; Cale. iod.; Cale.
p.;. Carbo v.; Cham.; Cinch.; Fluor. ac.; Graph.; Hep.
Jod.; lodof.; Kali iod.; Mere. i. r.; Merc. s.; Ol. j. as.
Phos.; Sil., Sul.

Muscles, deep — Calc. c.

Psoas abscess — Sil.; Symphyt.

To abort — Apis: Bell.; Bry.; Hep.; Merc. s

To hasten suppuration —Guaiac.; Hep.; Lach.; Merc. s.;
Operc.; Phos.; Phyt.; Sil.

ACROMEGALY — Pituit. ext.; Thyr.

ADDISON’S DISEASE — Adren.; Ant. ¢.;  Apomorph.; Azg.
m.; Ars.: Ais, jod.; Bac.; Bell.; Calc. ars.; Calc. c.; Hy-
droc ac.; Jod., Kreos.; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Phos., Sec;
Sil; Spig.; Sul.; Suprarenal ext.; Thuya; Tub.; Vanad.

ANEMIA — Chlorosis: Acct. ac.; Alet.; Alum.; Arg. n.; Arg.
oxy.; Arn.; Ars.; Aur. ars.; Bism.; Cale. ars.; Calc. c.;
Cale. lact.; Calc. Ra Calop.; Carbo v.; Chin, ars.; Chin.
s.; Cie; Cinch; Con.; +Crat.; Cupr. ars.; Cupr. m.; Cycl.;
Ferr. ac.; Ferr. ars.; Ferr. carcb.; Ferr. et. chin.; Ferr. p.;
Ferr, tod.; Kerr, m.; Ferr. mur.; Ferr. ox.; Ferr. red.; Gos-
syp.; Graph.; Helon.; Wydr.; lod.; Irid.; Kali bich.; Kals c.;
Kali p.; Lecith.; Lye; Mang. ac.; Mere. s.; Nat. m.;
Nit. ac.; Nux v.; Petrol.; Phos.; Picr. ac.; Plat.; Plumb.
ac.; Puls.; Rubia, Sacchar. of.; Sec.; Sep.; Sil.; Strych.
et ferr. cit.; Sul.; Thyr.: Vanad.; Zinc. ars.; Zinc, mur.

From cardiac disease — Ars.; Crat.; Stroph.

From grief — Nat. m.; Phos. ac.

From malaria — Alston.; Ars.; Nat. m.; Ostrya; Rubia.

From mens derangements— Arg. oxy.; Ars.; Cale. c.;
Cale. p.; t.; Cyl; Ferr.; Graph; Kali c.:; Mang. ac.;
Nat. m.; Puls.; Sep.

From nutritional disturbances — Alet.;  Alum.; Calc. p.;
Ferr.; Helor.; Nux v.

From suboxidation — Picr. ac.

From 3s; lis —Calop.

From vital drains, exbausting disease —- Acct. ac.; Alston.;
Cale, p.; Chin. 8.; Cinch; Ferr.; Helon.; Kah c.; Not. m;

Ss. ac.; Phos,

Hemorrhagic chlorosis — Arg. oxy.; Ars.; Cale. c.; Ign.;

Nat. br.
GENERALITIES 1053

Pernicious anemia — Ars.; Phos.; Picr. ac.; Thyr.
Type, erythistic; worse in winter — Ferr. m.
ASPHYXIA — An. c.; Ant. t.; Hydroc. ac.; Sul. hydr.; Upas.
Asphyxia neonatorum ~~ Ant. te; Daur
BLOOD — Disorganization: Ail; 3 Am. c.; Anthrac ; Arn; ers; :
Ars. hydr.; Bapt., Carb, ac; Crot ; Echin.; Kreos ; Lach. s
Mut. ac.; Phos.; Pso: ; ; Pyr.; Rhus t.; Tar. ce. See Pyemia.

BONES —Club-foot: Nux v.; Phos.; Stiych.

Cold feeling -— Zinc. m

Condyles, epiphyses, swollen —- Conchiolin: Rhus t

Condyles, sutures, affected — Calc c.; Cale. p.

Cranial bones, thin, soft — Calc. c.; Cak b.

Crooking — Am. c; Cale. c; Cale. p; lod; §

Development, tardy —-(alc « , Cale fl; Cal, t Sil.

Enlargement (acromegaly) -— Pitiit. ext.; Thyr.

Exostoses — Aig. m.; Aw.; Cale. c.3 Cule. fll; Hekla; Kali
lich , Wali tod., Wapis alb ; Malatidr ; Mere. ce: AMere.
phos; Mere. 5.35 Mez; Fehos, Plumb. ac.; Ruta; Sil;
Still.; Sul.; Zinc. m.

Fractures, shock — Acon* Ain.

Fractures, slow union ~ Cale. p., Calend ; Tod; Mang. ac.;
Mezs.; Phos ac; Ruta; Sil; Symphyt.; Thyt.

Inflammation (osteitis) — Asaf ; Aur. iod., Aur.; Conchiol.;
Hekla; Hep ; Jod.; Nah 10d., Mere, s , Nit ac., Phos. ac.;
Phos.; Staph ; Still; Stront. c.

Inflammation, chronic (osteitis deformans)— Aur.; Calc. p.;
Hekla; Nit. ac.

Inflammation, (osteo-myetitis) — Acon ; Chin. s.; Phos.

NECROSIS —-- Angust.; Arg. m.; Ars.; -lsaf.; Aur. iod.; Aur.
m.; Cale. c.5 Cale f., Cale. hypaphos ; Cale p.; Cale.
sil; Cinch ; Con.; Finor. ac. Graph.; THekla; Hep.; lod.;
Kali ich. > Kah iod 3 Tach ; Med; Mere. S.; Mez.:
Nat. sil. fl.; Nit. ac.; Phos. ac, Phos.; Plat. mur.; Sil.;
Staph.; Sul. ac.; Symphyt.; Syph ; Sul; Thea; Ther.;
Tub.; Vitrum

Facial ~~ Hep.; ; Mez; Sil.

Femur — Stront. c.

Long bones — Angust.; .\saf.; Fluor. ac.; Stront. c.
Mastoid, palatine, cranial — Aur m.

Mastoid, temporal — Calc. #.; Caps.

Nasal — Aur; Kali bich.

Skull — Fluor. ac.

Sternum —-Con.

Tarsus — Plat. mur. .
Tibize — Asaf.; Carb. ac.; EHicp.; Lach.; Nit. ac.; Phos.
Vertebre — Calc. c.; Nat. m.: Phos. ac.; Sil.; Sticta; Syph.
Vertebrz, inferior maxilla — Phos.

NODES — Asaf.; Aur. mur; Cinnab.; Fluor, ac; Kali bich.;
Kali iod.; Merc.; ; Mez.; Nux v.; Phyt.; Si; Still. See
Syphilis (Male Sexual *dystem).

PAIN — Agar.; Angust.; Asaf.; Aur. m.; Aur. mur. B
Castor 64:3 Canst.; Crot.; Crot. sase.j Eup. Ba:
horb.; Fluor. ac.: :'Guaiac s Hep.; Iod.; Ipec.; oh ‘bich.
Kali 1od.: Lyc.; Lyssin; Mang. ac.; Mere. c.; Mere. 3:
Mes., Phos. ac. Phos.; Phyt.; Rhod.; Rhus t.; Ruta;
Sil.; Staph.; Sul.; Symphyt.; ‘Syph.; Vitrum.
1054 GENERALITIES

Burning -- Aw; Euphoib ; Fluor. ac; Kali iod.; Phos. ac.;
Sul

Constricting, band-like — 4pis, Carb. ac.; Hep.; Nit. ae;
Sul.

Drawing, pressing, sensitiveness — Nit. ac.

Gnawing, digging — Aur., Carb. ac.; Kali iod.; Mang. ac.;
Mere.; Symphyt.

Growing - Guaiac.; Mang. ac.; Phos. ac.

In coccyx -~ Castor eq.

In face, feet) -.\ur. m

In Jong bones - -Cinnab.; Eup. perf ; Staph.; Stront.; Syph.

~, shin bones ~ Agar ; Asaf.; Castor eq; Carb. ac.; Dule.;
Mez, Staph; Stul.; Syph.
skull — Tyup. perf.; Kali bich.

In vertebra --- Agar

Influenzal -- Kup. perf.

Localized in spots, worse, from weather changes —

ho

Nocturnal — -lsaf.; dur.; Fluor. ac: Hep.: Iod.; Kali fod.,
Lach ; Mang. ac; Merc.; Alec, Phos. ac; Phyt.; Rhod.;
Stil.; Syph.

Pricking — Arn; Syvmphxe.

Sore, bruised, aching — Cinch , Conchiol.; Eup. perf.; Lyssin;
Phyt., Ruta.

Sore, bruised, as if scraped -—~ Ipec ; Paris; Fhos. ac.; Khus t.

Sore, bruised, worse, from cold; wondering —- Kali bich

Tearing — Causi: Fluor ae* Phos ac

Throbbing, , jerking, darting, drawing, hypersensitive-
mess ~-— \sal.

Worse, from damp weather — Mcrc ; Mez.; Nit. ac.; Phyt;
Rhus t; Stul.; Syph.

PERIOSTITIS — And periosteal affections: Apis; Aran.; Asaf.;
Aur m, Aur. mur.; Cale c.; Clem.; Colch.; Con.; Ferr.
iod ; Graph ; Guaiac., Hekla; Tod.; Kali bich.; Kah iod.;
Mang. ac.; Merc. s ; Mcz ; Nit. ac.; Phos, ac.; Phos; Phyt.;
Plat mur.; Rhod.; Rhus t.; Rute; Sars.; Sil; Still:
Symphyt.

SOFTENING, Mollities Ossium — Calc. c.; Cale. iod.; Calc. p.;
Guaiac.; Iod.; Merc. s.; Phos.

SPINAL bifida - - Bry.; Calc. p.; Psor.; Tub.

Spinal caries (Pott’s disease) -~ Arg. m.; Aur.: Cale. c.;
Cale. iod ; Cale. p, Con.; Tod.; Kali iod.; Mere. i. r.:
Phos. ac, Phos; Pyr.; Si, Sull.; Sul; Syph.; Tub.:
Vitrum. ‘

Spinal curvature --- Cale. ¢.; Cale. p.; Ferr. iod.; Phos.; Sil;
Sul.; Ther. .

Wounds — Ruta; Symphyt.

NIC PLAGUE — Anthrac.: Ant. t.; 4rs.: Bapt.; Bell:

“& Bubon ; Casbo v.; Cinch , Crot., Inui Tod.; Lach; Naja;
Opere.; Phos ; Pyr.; Rhus t.; Tar. c.

ER «- Remedies in general: Acct ac.; Ananth; Ant.

’ Joy Anis; Aes; Ars, br.; Ars. iod.; Aster.; Aur. ars.;

Rogaine n.;_ Bapt.; Bism.; Brom.; Cale. ¢.; Cale. iod.;

a _ oX.; Calend.; Carb. ac.; Carbo an.; Carbon. 5;

inos.; Choline; Cic.; Cinnam.; Crstus; Condur.; Con.;
Cupr. ac.; Eupherb.; Form. ac.; Formica, Fuligo; Galum
1054 GENERALITIES

Burning -- Aw; Euphoib ; Fluor. ac; Kali iod.; Phos. ac.;
Sul

Constricting, band-like — 4pis, Carb. ac.; Hep.; Nit. ae;
Sul.

Drawing, pressing, sensitiveness — Nit. ac.

Gnawing, digging — Aur., Carb. ac.; Kali iod.; Mang. ac.;
Mere.; Symphyt.

Growing - Guaiac.; Mang. ac.; Phos. ac.

In coccyx -~ Castor eq.

In face, feet) -.\ur. m

In Jong bones - -Cinnab.; Eup. perf ; Staph.; Stront.; Syph.

~, shin bones ~ Agar ; Asaf.; Castor eq; Carb. ac.; Dule.;
Mez, Staph; Stul.; Syph.
skull — Tyup. perf.; Kali bich.

In vertebra --- Agar

Influenzal -- Kup. perf.

Localized in spots, worse, from weather changes —

ho

Nocturnal — -lsaf.; dur.; Fluor. ac: Hep.: Iod.; Kali fod.,
Lach ; Mang. ac; Merc.; Alec, Phos. ac; Phyt.; Rhod.;
Stil.; Syph.

Pricking — Arn; Syvmphxe.

Sore, bruised, aching — Cinch , Conchiol.; Eup. perf.; Lyssin;
Phyt., Ruta.

Sore, bruised, as if scraped -—~ Ipec ; Paris; Fhos. ac.; Khus t.

Sore, bruised, worse, from cold; wondering —- Kali bich

Tearing — Causi: Fluor ae* Phos ac

Throbbing, , jerking, darting, drawing, hypersensitive-
mess ~-— \sal.

Worse, from damp weather — Mcrc ; Mez.; Nit. ac.; Phyt;
Rhus t; Stul.; Syph.

PERIOSTITIS — And periosteal affections: Apis; Aran.; Asaf.;
Aur m, Aur. mur.; Cale c.; Clem.; Colch.; Con.; Ferr.
iod ; Graph ; Guaiac., Hekla; Tod.; Kali bich.; Kah iod.;
Mang. ac.; Merc. s ; Mcz ; Nit. ac.; Phos, ac.; Phos; Phyt.;
Plat mur.; Rhod.; Rhus t.; Rute; Sars.; Sil; Still:
Symphyt.

SOFTENING, Mollities Ossium — Calc. c.; Cale. iod.; Calc. p.;
Guaiac.; Iod.; Merc. s.; Phos.

SPINAL bifida - - Bry.; Calc. p.; Psor.; Tub.

Spinal caries (Pott’s disease) -~ Arg. m.; Aur.: Cale. c.;
Cale. iod ; Cale. p, Con.; Tod.; Kali iod.; Mere. i. r.:
Phos. ac, Phos; Pyr.; Si, Sull.; Sul; Syph.; Tub.:
Vitrum. ‘

Spinal curvature --- Cale. ¢.; Cale. p.; Ferr. iod.; Phos.; Sil;
Sul.; Ther. .

Wounds — Ruta; Symphyt.

NIC PLAGUE — Anthrac.: Ant. t.; 4rs.: Bapt.; Bell:

“& Bubon ; Casbo v.; Cinch , Crot., Inui Tod.; Lach; Naja;
Opere.; Phos ; Pyr.; Rhus t.; Tar. c.

ER «- Remedies in general: Acct ac.; Ananth; Ant.

’ Joy Anis; Aes; Ars, br.; Ars. iod.; Aster.; Aur. ars.;

Rogaine n.;_ Bapt.; Bism.; Brom.; Cale. ¢.; Cale. iod.;

a _ oX.; Calend.; Carb. ac.; Carbo an.; Carbon. 5;

inos.; Choline; Cic.; Cinnam.; Crstus; Condur.; Con.;
Cupr. ac.; Eupherb.; Form. ac.; Formica, Fuligo; Galum
GENERALITIES 1055

ap.; Guaco; Graph, ; Ham.; Hoang n.; Hydr.; Tod.; Kali
ars.; Kah cy.; Kali iod.; Kreos.; Lach.; ue gb
Maland.; Phos.; Phyt.; Radium; Rumex ac. a
perv. t. f Scirrhin.; Sedum rep.; Sep.; Sil.; Svaphyt;
Sul.; Tarax.; Thuya.

Cancer, of antrum — Aur.; Sympbyt.

Cancer, of bone — Aur iod.; Phos.; Symphyt.

Cancer, of bowel, lower — Ruta.
neer, of breast -— Aster.; Bar. iod.; Brom.; Bufo; Carbo

Carcinos.; Condur.; Con.; Form. ac.; Graph.; Hydr.;
Phyt.; 3. Plumb, tod.; Nat. cacodyl.; Scirrhin. See Female
Sexual System.

Cancer, of cawcum ~— Ornithog.

Cancer, of glandular structures -- Hoang naz.

Cancer, of omentum — Lob. erin.

Cancer, of stomach —- Acet. ac.; Ars.; Bisin.; Cadm. s.; Con-
dur.; Form. ac., Hydr.; Kreos.; Ornithog.; Phos.; Sec.
See Stomach.

Cancer, of uterus — Aur. m. n.; Carbo an.; Carcinos.; Fuli
Hydr.; TIod.; Lapis alb.; Nat. cacodyl.; Nit. ac; oc,
See Female Sexual System.

Cancer, to relieve pains — Alveloz.: Apis; Ars.; Aster.; Bry.;
Calc, ac; Cale. ¢.; Calc. ox.; Carcinos.; Ced.; Cinnam ;
Condur.; Con.; Echin.; Euphorb.; Hvydyr.; Morph. ; Op.;
Ova t.; Sil.

CARTILAGES, (perichondritis) — Inflammation: Arg. m.; Bell.;
Cham.; Cim.; Oleand.; Plumb.; Ruta.

Cartilages, pains — Arg. m.; Ruta.

Cartilages, ulceration — Mere. c.

CELLULAR TISSUE —Indurated: Anthrac., Carbo an.; - Graph;
Kali 10d.; Kreos ; Merc.; Plumb. iod.; Rhus t.; Sit.

CELLULITIS — Apis: Arn.; Ars.; Bapt.; Crot.; Lack.; Merc.
s. r., Rhus t.; Sil, Vespa.

COMPLAINTS — ABUSE of alcoholic beverages: Agar.; Apo-
morph. ; Ant. t.; Ars.; Aur.; Carbo v.; Carbon. s.; Card.
m.; Coce.; Colch.; Eup. pert.; Hydr.; Ipec.; Lach.; Led.;
Lob. infl.; Nux v.; Quere.; Ran, 6; Strych.; Sul. ac.;
Sul.; Ver. a. See Alcoholism (Nervous System).

Abuse ‘of aconite — Sul.

Abuse of arsenic — Carbo v.; Ferr.; Ilep.: Ipec.; Ver. a.

Abuse of belladonna — Hyos.; Op.

Abuse of bromide of potassium—  Camph.; Helon.; Nux v.;

‘inc. m.

Abuse of camphor — Canth ; Coff.; Op.

Abuse of cantharis — Apis; Camph.

Abuse ef chamomilla — Cinch.; Coff.; Ign.; Nux v.; Puls.

Abuse of chloral — Can. ind.

Abuse of chlorate of potash — Hydr.

Abuse of cod liver oil — Hep.

Abuse of coffee — Cham ; Guar.; Ign ; Nux v.

Abuse of colchicum — Led.

Abuse of condiments — Nux v.

Abuse of digitalis — Cinch.; Nit. ac.

Abuse of drugs in general — Aloe; Hydr.; Nux v.; Teucr.

Abuse of ergot — Cinch.; Lach.; Nux v.; Sec.; Solan. n.
1056 GENERALITIES

Abuse of iodides — Ars.; Bell.; Hep.; Hydr.; Phos.

Abuse of iron -— Cinch.; Hep.; Puls.

Abuse of lead (plumbism) — Alum.;  Bell.; Carbon. s.;
Caust.; JTod.; Kal iod.; Merce.; Nux v.; Op.; Petrol.;
Plat.; Sul. ac.

Abuse of magnesia — Nux v.; Rheum

Abuse of mercury — Angust.; Ant. t.; Asaf.; Aur.; Cinch ;
Clem.; Dulce ; Fluor. ac.; Guaiac.; Hep.; Iod.; Kali tod.;
Lach.; Mez.; Nit ac.; Op; Plat mur.; Phyt.; Pod.;
Rhus g.; Sars.; Sul.

Abuse of narcotics -— Acet. ac.; Apomorph.; Avena; Can.
ind.; Cham.; Cim.; Ipec.; Macrot.

Abuse of nitrate of silver — Nat. m.

Abuse of phosphorus — Jach.; Nux v.

Abuse of quinine ——.4rs ; Bell.; | Col.; Carbo v.; Eucal;
Ferr ; Ipec.; Lach.; Not. m; Parth ; Puls.; Selen.

Abuse of salt (halophagia) — Ars.; Carbo v.; Nit. sp. d.;

hos.

Abuse of stramonium — Nux v.: Tab

Abuse of strychnine — Cur.; Encal, Kal br.; Physost.

Abuse of sugar — Nat. p.

Abuse of tar, locally — Bov.

Abuse of tea— Abies n.; Cinch.; Diosc.; Ferr.; Puls.; Selen.;
Thuya.

Abuse of tobacco-~ 4bics n.; .4rs.; Calad ; Cale. p.; Camph.;
Chin” ais.; Cinch.; Gels.; Ign.; Ipec; Kal.; Lyc.; Nux
2: Phos.: Plant.; Plumb.; Sep.; Spig.: Staph.; Ver. a.

Abuse of tobacco, in boys — Arg. u.; Ars.; Ver. a.

Abuse of turpentine — Nux m.

Abuse of vegetable medicines — Camph.; Nuz wv.

Abuse of veratrum — Camph ; Coff.

Anesthetic vapors, antidote —- 4cct. ac.; Am. caust.; Amyl;
Hep.; Phos.

BITES of insects, snakes, dogs — Acet. ac; Am caust.; An-
thrac.; (Apt : Arn.: Ars.; Bell; Calad; Camph.; Ced.;
Crot ; Echin.; Golond.; Grind.; Guaco; Gymnen.; Hydroc.
ac.; Hivper., Kali perm.: Lach; Led.; Mosch.; Pyr.:
Salag.; Sisyr.; Spirea; Trychnos.

Charcoal fumes, illuminating gas, ill effects - Acct. ac.; Am.
c.; Arn.; Bell.; Bov.; Coff.; Op.

CHECKED discharges, ill effects — Abrot ; Asaf.; Aur. mur.;
Bar. c.; Bry : Graph; Tach; Lob. infl.; Med.; Mere. s.;
Psor., Sanic.; Sit., Stram., Sul.; Zinc. m.

Checked foot sweat, ill effects — Bor. c.; Cupr.; Formica;
Psag.3 Sanic.; Sil.; Zine.

Checked gonorrhea, ill effects — Graph.; Psor.; Med.; Thuyo;
X-ray.

Checked, sweats, ill effects — Acon.; Bellis; Rhus t.

CHRONIC DISEASES, to begin treatment — Culc. c.; Cale. p.;
Puls.; Sul. .

CICATRICES, affections — Calc, fi.; Fluor. ac.; Hyper.; Phyt.;
Sil.; Thiosin.

Cicatrices, freshen up, ‘eopen — Caust.; Fluor. ac.; Graph.;

. pol. am.; Sil,

[; ces, itch — Fluor. ac.

Cieatrices, pain during change of weather — Nit. ac.

Cicatrices, turn red or blue — Sul. ac.
GENERALITIES 1057

COMPLAINTS, appear, atypically — Mosch.
Complaints, appear, diagonally, upper left, lower right
c side — Agar. ; Ant 5 Stram. taht, 1 lef
omplaints, appear, diagonally, upper t, lower t

side — Ambra; Brom.; Med.> Phos: Sul. Be

Complaints, appear, from above downwards — Cact.; Kal.

Complaints, appear, from below, upwards — Led.

Complaints, appear, gradually — Calc. sil.; Cinch.; Radium;
ellur.

Complaints, appear, gradually, cease gradually -~ Arg. n.;
Plat.; Stann.; Stront «; Syph.

Complaints, appear, gradually, cease suddenly — Ign.;
Puis.; Sul. ac.

Complaints, appear, in small spots — Coff.; Jgn.; Kali bich.;
Tal 1.3 Ox. ac.

Complaints, appear, suddenly, cease gradually -- Puls.; Sul,
ac.

Complaints, appear, suddenly, cease suddenly -— Bell. ;
Cact.; Carb, ac.; Eup. perf.; Eup. purp.; Ign.; Kali bich.;
Mag. p.; Nit. ac.; Oxytrop.; Petrol; Poth.; Steych.

Complaints, fatal issue; to induce “euthanasia” — Amy];
alrs., Carbo v.

Complaints, from chilling — Acon.; Coff.; Dulc.; Nux v.

Complaints, from exposure of feet—— Calc. c.; Cupr. m;
od

Complaints, from exposure, to cold dry wind: — dAcon.;
Biy., Caust; Hep.: Raod.

Complaints, from living in cool, damp places — Ant. t.
Aran.; Ars.; Ats. 104., Cale. c.; Cale. sil; Dulce; Net. s.
Rhus t.

Complaints, from overlifting — Arn.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.;
Rah c.3 Lyc.; Nat. c., Nat. m.; Phos.; Rhus t., Sep.;

ul.
‘ Complaints, from working, in clay, cold water — Calc. c.;
Mag. p

Complaints, improve, then relapse continually — Sul.

Complaints, improve, then remain stationary — Caust.;
sor.; Sul.

Complaints, in extremes of life — Bar. c.; Millef.; Op.;
vor. a.

Complaints, in fleshy persons — Allium s.; Am. c.; Am. m.;
Ant. ¢, Biatta_or.; Cale ars.; Calc. c.; Caps., Carbo v.;
Ferr.; Graph.; Kah bich ; Kali c., Lob. infl.; Phyt.; Puls.
See Obesity.

Complaints, in old people — Alumen; Alum.; Ant. ¢.; Ars.;
Aurant.; Bar. c., Bar. m.; Caps.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.;
Con,; Fiuor. ac.; Hydr.; lod.; Kali c.; Lyc.; Millef.; Op.;
Sec.; Ver. a.

Complaints, wander, or shift_about, erratic, changeable —
pris: Beng. av; er v.5 Dios. 1gn. 5 Kok bich.; Keli s.;

ac cg Lal t; Mag. p.; Magnoha; Mang. ac.; Phyt.;
Puls.; Sanic.; Tub. s P s 0 yes

Complaints, with painlessness — Op.; Stram.

ERUPTIONS, exanthemata, suppressed, or repercussed, ill
effects — Apis, Ars.; Asaf.; Bry.; Camph., Caust.; Cic.;

.
1058 GENERALITIES

Cupr.; Helleb.; Mag. s.; Psor.; Puls.; Stram.; Sul; Twb.;
X-ray; Zinc. m.
Foreign bodies, in larynx, trachea — Ant. t.; Ipec.; Sil.
Growth, t rapid; il effets, hose Cy Caic. ?.; Ferr. ac.;
Irid.; Kreoss ; Phos. ac.;

Mental labor, sufferings ftom Gels.; ; Graph.; Lye; Nat.
c; Nux v.; Phos. ac.; Sil.

Mining, ill effects — Card. m.; Nat. ars.

Mountain climbing, aviation, ill effects — Ars.; Coca.

Night watching, mental strain, ill effects — Bellis; Ca 8.3 H
Caust.; Cocc.;'Colch.; Cupr.; Dipod.; Gels. ; Ign. ;

d.; Nit. ac; Nux uv; Phos. ac.; Zinc ac. See Neu-
rathenia (Nervous System).

Nutritional disturbances, development tardy -— Bac.; Bar.
c.; Cale c.; Cale. p.; Caust.; Kreos.; Lac d.; Nat. m.;
Pinus sylv.; Sil ; Thyr.

Poison oak, and rhus ‘Poisoning — Anac.; i Apis; Arn.; As-
tac.; Cim.; Crot. Cyprip.; Echin ; Erech.; Euphorb.
d.; Graph.; Grind at ” Hedeoma; lydrophyl. Led.; Mez.;
Plant.; Prim. ob.; Rhus d.; Rhus: ; Sang.; Sep.; Tanac.;
Urt ; Vanillin; Verb.; Xerophyl.

PTOMAINE poisonin, decayed food) — Absinth.; Acet. ac.;
Ars.; Camph.; Carbo an.; Carbo v.; Cepa;: Crot.; Cupr.

ars. ; Gunpowder; Kreos.; Py1.; Urt.; Ver. a.
Ptomaine poisoning (mushrooms) — Agar.; Atrop.; Bell.;

Pyr.

Sewer gas, ill effects — Anthrac.; Bapt.; Phyt.; Pyr.

Sun exposure, ill effects: SUNSTR OKE (coup-de-soleil) :
Acon.; Ant ec: Reill.- Rry = Cact.: Camph.: Gels.; Glon.;
Hydroe. ac.; Lach.; Nat. ¢.; Op.; Stram.; Usnea; Ver. v.
See Collapse (Nervous System); Modalities.

Vaccination, ill effects — Acon.; Ant. ¢.; Apis; Bell.; Crotss ;
Behin 3 Malandr.; Merc. s.; Mes.: Sars.; Sep.; Sil. 1; Sul.;

huya.

Vital drains ill effects — Cale. p.; Cinch.; Ham.; Kah c.;

Kali p.; Nat. m.; Phos. ac.; ]hos.; Psor.
DEGENERATION — Fatty: Ars.; Aur.; Cupr.; Kali c.; Phos ,
ana
DROPSY — Acetan.; i Acet, ac.; Acon.; Adon. v.; Amelop.; Am.
benz. 5 ; is; Apoc.; Arg. phos.; Ars.; Ars. iod.; Asclep.
Ast vine.; Benz ac.; Blatta am.; Brass.; Bry.;
Chet s ce. ars.; Cale. c.; Caffeine; Cahinca; Card. m;
Cinch, ‘ochlear.; Colch,; Conv.; Cop.; Crat.; Dig.; Dule.;
Elat.; Eup. purp.; Euphorb.; Fert.; Fluor. ac; Galium,
Helteb. i Hep.; lod; ris germ; Jatropha; Junip.; Kai
Kah ars.; Kali ts ; Kali iod.; Kah n.; Lach.; Lact. v.;
gtris; Lyc.; Nasturt ; Onisc.; ‘Oxvdend.; Phayeul., Phos ;
loc.; Prun. sp; Psor.; Querc.; Rhus te Samb. can.;
ee Sella; Solan. n.; Solid ; Stroph.;' Strych. ars.;
; Teuci. sc.; Th! spi; Toxivophis; rium; Ur. ac.
From alcoholism — Ars.; ; Fluor. ac.; Sul.
From eruption suppressed, sweat, rheumatism — Dulc.
From heart disease — Adon, ~.; Apis; Apoc.; Arn.; Ars.;
Cee fod: Asclep. s; Coct: Caffeine, Collins.; Conv.;
me g Dag.; Digttalin: Jod.; Kal.; Liatris; Stroph. See
os rat
GENERALITIES 1059

From kidney disease — Ampe] ; Ant. t.: .4pis; Apoc.; Ars.;
Asclep ss; Aspar.; Chimaph , Dig.; Digitalin; Mup. purp :
Hiclon ; Liatris: Were co, Plumb.; Tereb, Uric. ac. sce
Urinary System

From liver disease — Apoc, Ars; Asclep s.3) Aur: Card
m; Ceanoth.; Chel, Chimaph ; Tyatris; Lve., Mur ac;
Polymnta. See Laver (Abdomen).

From menstrual disorder at puberty, or menopause — ]’u! .

From spleen disease — Cearcth ;  Ijatris; Quere.;  Seitla
See Spleen (Abdomen)

From renittent fever -—- Helleb.

From scarlet fever —-Acon.; sIpis, Ars.; Asclep s.3 Colch :
Dig.. Helielb, Hep: Jump. Lach: Piloc ; Scilla; Tere.

From suppressed exanthemata — .\~s; lelleb ; Zinc m

From suppressed intermittents — Caibo v.; Cineh.; Ferr, m

Dropsy, in newborn — Amis; Caffeane; Carbo v ; Lyg.; Lach.

Dropsy, with diarrhoea — Acct. ac

Dropsy, with serum oozing --- Ars.: iyyc.; Rhus t

Dropsy, with soreness in uterine region - Conv.

Dropsy, with suppressed urine, fever, debility -— Hell b.

Dropsy, with thirst -—— Acet. ac.; Acon.; Apoc ; Ars

Dropsy, without thirst — Apis; Helleb.

LOCATION — Abdomen — ASCITES: Acet. ac.; Adon. v.; Apts;

foc, «irs; Aur my; Aur. m. n; Blatta am., Cahinca;

Canth : Cinch , Cop.; Dig.: Digitalin; Fluor. ac; /Zelleb.;

Tod > Kah ec; Lact ve Led: Lye, Nat. chlor.; Oxydend ;
Prun. sp. Samb; Senec., Sep.; Yereb.; Uran. n

Chest (hydrothorax) — 4pf1s; Apoc; Ars ; Ars. ind 3 Colch.;
Dig.. Natu c., Vach.; Lact. v.; Mere. sul., Seilla; Sul.
Sce Chest.

Extremity, left — Cact

General — ANASARCA: — Acctan.: Acet. ac.: Acon.; Eth;
Aps; Apoc; Arn.; Ars, Cahinca; Cinch ; Conv., Cop.;
Crat.; Dig.) Dule.; Kerr. m.: Helleb.; Kali c.; Laatris,
Lye; Mere. ¢, Oxydend, Pict. ac.; Prun. sp.; Tereb.;
Uran. n. See Dropsy.

EFFUSION — Threatening: fis; Bry.; Cie.; Cinch.; Helleb.,
Todof.; Op.; Tub.: 411¢e. m.

GLANDERS --.\con ; Ars; Chin) s.: Crot.. Hep.; Hippoz.;
Kal: bich,; Wach ; Meze s.; Phos.; Sep.; Sil.; Thuya,
GLANDS — Absceas: Bcll ; Calc. c.; Cale. iod ; Cistus; Hep.;

Lapis alb ; Merc.: Nit. ac; Rhus t.; Stl.

Affections, traumatic — Acter.; Con.

Atrophy — Iod.

Induration — Alumen; Ars: Ars. br.; 4ster.; Aur. mur.;
Bad.; Bar. c.; Bar, iod.; Bar. m.; Bell.: Brom.; Cale. 3
Cale. chlor., Cale. fl; Carbo an., Cinch.; Cistus; Clem.;
Con.; Dule.; Graph: Hekla; Iod.; Kali iod.; Lapis alb.;
Merc. i. fli; Mere. i. r.; Operc.: Phyt.; Rhus t.; Spong.;
Thyr.; Trifol. r.

Inflammation (ADENITIS) — Acute: <Acon.; Ail.; Alumen;
Ananth.; Apis; Ars. 10d.; Bar. ¢.; Bar. iod.; Bell.; Cis-
tus; Clem.; Dule.; Graph.; Hep.; Iod.; Iodof.; Kali 10d.;
Merc. i. 1r.; Merc. s.; Opere.; Phyt.; Rhus t; Sil; Sil.
mar.
1060 GENERALITIES

Inflammation, chronic: GLANDULAR SWELLINGS —
Acon. lyc.; lil, Alnus, Avs. bi., Ats.; irs. wod.; Arum;
Astacus; Aur. mur.; Bad., Bar. « , Bar. tod.; Bar, mur.;
Brom, Cale. ¢., Cale. fl, Cale. 1od.. Cale. p.; Calend.;
Carbo an.; Cistus, Clem., Con., Coryd.; Crot.; Dulce;
Fer1 jiod.; Filix; Graph.; Hep; fod, Kali iod., Lach.;
Lapis alb, Lye. Menc. cy.; Mere. i. fl.; Merc. 1 7.3 Merc.
si Nit. ac; PAyt., Psor.; Rhus ¢; Runes; Sal. maz.;
Scirrhm , Serophul.. Sih, Sul. inar.; Spony., Sul., Taxus;
Thosin ; Thuya, Tub.

LOCATION—OF GLANDULAR AFFECTION: Axillary:
Acon lve, .Ister, Bar. c., Bell; Cale 3 Carbo an.;
Con, laps, Giaph ; Hep.; Jugl 1.. Lact. ac., Nat. s.3
Nit. ac.; Raph.; Rhus t ; Sil.; Sul.

Bronchial ~- Bell ; Cale. ¢ ; Cale. fl; Jod ; Mere. e.3 Tub.

Cervical --- Acon. ye: wlin, ¢., Astac.; Bae.; Bar. c, Bar.
iod, Bell, Brom., Cale. ¢., Cale. chlor; Cale fi; Cale.
rod 3 Carbo an Caust;  Castus, Dule; Graph; Hekla;
Ilep., Tod: Kah i0d.;) Kali m.; Lapis alb., Mag. p;
Merc. fs Mere. 1. te Mere.; Nit. ac; Rhus t., Rhus
w%, Rhus v; Sal. mai.; Sil.; Spong.; Still, Sul.

Inguinal — Apis, -\rs.i. Aur; ; Bac, Rar. ce, Bar. mj; Beli;
Cale. c.j Carbo an.; Clem.; Dule., Geaphs Kali iod ;
Merce. i. flies Mere. s., Nit’ acs Ocim; Pall, Pinus sylv ;
Rhus t; Sil; Sul.; Nerophyl.

Mesenteric --- /1s., .\rs. iod 3 _Bac.; Bar. Rar, mur ;
Calc, c.; Cale. fl.; Cale. tod. ; Con; Graph j ; "lod., Lodof .
Lapts alb.; Averc. c., Mez; Tub. “See Tabes Mesenterica.

Parotid — Inflammation (Parotitis, Mumps): .fcon.; Ail;
Am oc; Anthrac., Ant. t; Aur. muc; Rar. c, Bar m.;
Bell, Brom, Cale eo. Carbo an, Cham.; Cistus; Dule.;
Kuphras.; Ferr. p, Wep.; Wale bich , Kali m.; Lach ;
Mag. p3 Merc c.s Mere cy., Mere. i. fl, Mere wo ors
Mere. s., Phyt, Piloe; Puls., Rhus t, Su, Sul; Sul.
iod.; Trifol.; Tiifol 1

Parotitis, gangrenous — Antluac.

Parotitis, metastases to brain -— Apis; Bell.

Parotitis, metastases to mamme _ ovaries — Cou.; Puls.;

Jabo1
Parotitis, metastases to testes— Aur.; Clem.; Ham.; Puls.;
us. ¢.

Parotitis, persistent — Bar. ac.; Bar. c.; Con.; Iod.; Sil.

Sebaceous glands — Lyc.; Psor.; Raph.; Sil.; Sul. See Skin.
Submaxillary — Alnus; Arum; Asimina; Bar. c.; Brom.; Cale.
Cp Calend.; Chan; Cistus; Clem.; lod.; Kah hich: Kali
pa Bye: a Atag. Pp; Mere, cy. ; Were. 1 a Mere. io Nat.
etro inus sylv., yt.; us t.; «3 SL Sul.;

mages ; Trifol. r. me tap .
Goitre, ,, bronchocele) - ast. Am, c.; Am. m;

Tage. Aur. 1; Bad.; Bar. iod.; Bell.; Brom.; Calc. c.;
Cale.’ iod.,” Caust ; Chrom. ; BG Cistus; Crot.
le. fine m.; Fluor. ac.; Fucus; Glon.; -; Hep.; Hydr.;
Bir mil Tedothyr.; Triss Kali c.; Kali tod.:
@ ag. p.; Merc, i. fl.; Nat. m,; Ph Phyt.;

Pineal gl. ext.; Puls.; Sil.; Spong.; Sul.; Payne nd
GENERALITIES 1061

Thyroid — (EXOPHTHALMIC GOITRE — Basedow’s  dis-
ease) — Amyl; -Ars.; Ars. 10d.; Aur.; Bad.; Bar. 3 Bell.;
Brom ; Cact., Cale. ¢ , Can. ind ; Chrom. s.; Colch.; Con.;
Echin.; Ephedra; Fert. 1od.; Ferr, m.; Ferr. p.; "Fucus;
Glon , lod., Jabor.; Lycop., Nat. mj; Paloc., Spart. s.;
Spong.; Stram: » Thyr.

§ Paroxysm —-act.. }g.; Glon.; Samb,

GRANULATIONS — Exuberant: Calend.; Nit. ac.; Sab.; Sib;
Thuya. See Ulcers.

GREASE —In horses: Thuya.

HEMOPHILIA — Small wounds, bleed profusely, or pro-
tractedly: drcn., Ars.; Bov 5 Cale. lact.; Cinch.; Crot.;
Ferr m.: Ham., Wreos.; Lach.; Mere.; Mutlef., Nat. sol.;
Phos , Sec., ‘torch

HEMORRHAGES — Acal.; Acet ac.; Achillea; Acon.; Adren.;
Alumen; Alum.; ‘“Authrac. ; 3 dirn.; Ais. hyd.; Bell.; Both-
19ps} Bow . Cuct ; Canth.; Carho v; Chin. s.;_ Cinch;
Cinnam., Croc; Crotes Dig; [laps; Ercch.; Ergotin;
Erig, Ferr. m; ; Ferr. p.; Ficus, Gall. ac.; Gelatin;
Geran., Ham, Hydrastin, Ipec.; Wali_c.; Kreos.; Tach;
Meh; Meic cv.; .liley.; Mur. ac; Nat. sil; Nit. ac.;
Op.; Phos, Puls; Sab., Sanguis.; Sec., Sul. ac.; Sul;
Tereb.; Thiaspy; Wiha: Trill,, Ustil.; Ver. a.; Xanth,

Hemorrhage, chronic effects — Stront c.

Hemorrhage, from traumatiem — Aran.; Arn.; Bov.; Eu-
phorb. pil; Ham.; Afillef., ‘Trill.

Hemorrhage, hysterical (hemosialemesis) —Bad.; Cree;
Hyos ; Ign.; Kalt 10d; Mere. s.; Sticta; Sul,

Hemorrhage, with no mental anxiety — Ham.

Hemorrhage, with putrescence; tingling in limbs; debility
— Sec.

Hemorrhage, without fever or pain. — Millef.

Blood, bright red —Acon.; Bell.; Erech.; £rig.; Ferr. m:
Fer. p.; Ipec.; Led.; Millef.; Nit. ac ; ; Phos.; Sab.; Trill:

sti

Blood, clotted, partly fluid — Erig.; Ferr.; Plat.;  Puls.;
Ratanh. Sab., Ustil.

Bloed, dark, clotted — Alum.; ; Anthrac, ; Cinch.;  Croc.;
Crot ; Elaps; Mere. cy.; Mere.; Mur. ac; Plat.; "Sul. ac;
Tereb.; Thlaspr; Trill.

Blood, decomposes rapidly — Acct. ac.; Am. c.; Anthrac.;
Crot ; Lach.; Tereb.

Non-coagulable; intermittent —- Phos.

Non-coagulable, thin, dark — Crot.; Elaps; Lach.; Sec.; Sul.

Thin, pale, fluid — Ferr.; Tiha.
Venous, dark, clotted — Ham.; Mangif. ind.
Vicarious — Acet ac.; Ilam.

HODGKIN’S DISEASE (pseudo-leukemia)— Acon, lye.; A ;
Ars; Ars_iod.; Bar. tod.; Cale. fl; Ferr, bers Tod.
Kali’ m.; Nat. m.; Phos; 3 Serophul.

HOOK-WORM DISEASE — Chenop.; Thymol.

INFLAMMATIONS — Abrot.; Acon.; Agrost.; Apis; 3 ;
Bell.; Bry.; Canth.; Chel. ; Cinch he, Perr pis; am: nai
Kali bich:; Kali c.;’ Kali iod.; Kali m; Kai's 3 ‘Wat. Mat
Spiranth.; Sul.; Ver. v.; Vib. op. ‘
1062 GENERALITIES

Inflammations, passive — Dig.; Gels ; Puls.; Sul.

Inflammations, surgical— Acon.; Anthrac.; Arn.; Ars.; Ars
1od.; Bell.; Balls; Calend.; Cale s3  Eechin.; Hep.
Hyper.; Jod.; Mere c.; Mere. 1 15 Myrtis. 8.3 Pyr.
Rhus t.; $2. See Pyemia.

Inflammations, to favor absorption — Ant t.; Apis; Kai.
aod., Kah mj; Lye.; Phos.; Sul.

INJURIES (traumatisms) — Acet. ac; Acon.; Angust ; Arn.
Belts, Bufo, Calend.. Cie. Croat ot. Euphras ; Glon.
lam, Hyper, Led, Mag, ec: Millef.; Nat. s.3 thus t.
Ruta. Stront. ¢, Sul, ac ; Verb

Bruises, contusions — Meet ae, elrn , Bells: Con.; Echin
Hlam., Ilyper., Led; Rhus t., Kuta, Sul. ac., Symphyt ;
Vorb,

Bruises, of bone — Cale p: Ruta; Sy mphyt.

Bruises, of breast —- Bellis; Con

Bruises, of eye — Acon ; rn ; Ham ; Led.; Svmphyt.

Bruises, of parts, rich in sentient nerves — Relhs; Hyper

Bruises, with persistence of ecchymosis — Arn.; J,cd.; Sul.
ac.

Burns, scalds — Acet. ac.;  Acon.; Ain; Ars., Cale. 5s,
Calend ; C¢ amph > Canth., Carb. ac; Canst., Gaulth ;
Grind; "Ham.; 3 Hep, Jabor.: Kah bich.; Kreos.; Petrol:
Rhus i. . Tereb.s Ure.

Burns, fail to heal, or ill effects — Caust.

Chronic effects of injuries — frn.; Cic.; Con.; Ham.; Led.;
Nat. s.; Stront. c.

Mental symptoms, frum injuries ---Cic.; Glon > Typer.; Mag.
c.; Nat

Post-operative disorders — Acct ac.; Apis: Arn; Bellis,
Berb  v.; Calend, Cale. fl.; Camph.; Croce; Ferr. p.;
IIyper ; Kah a snes Naja; Nit. ac.; Raph., Staph.;
Stront.; Ver. a.

Prestration, from injuries — Acct. ac.; Camph.; Iyper.; Sul.
ac.; Ver. a

Sprains, strains — Acct. ac.; Jcon.; Agn.; Arn.; Bell; Bel
is, Cake. c, Cale. fi., Calend.; Carbo an.; Formica;
Hyper.; Millef.; Nux v.; Rhod.; Rhus t., Ruta; Stront.;
Symp hyt.

Sprains, tendency to — Nat. c.; Nat. m.; Psor.; Sil.

Wounds, bleed profusely — Arn.; Crot.; UWam;  Kreos.;
Lach; Millef.; Phos.; Sec.

ween bleed profusely, after a fall — 4rn.; Ham; Mil-

See

Wounds, bluish, discolored — Lach.; Lyssin.
‘ounds, bullet, from — Arn.; Calend.
‘ounds, contused -— Arn.; Symphyt.
‘ounds, dissecting, post-mortem --Anthrac.; Apis; Ars.;
» €rot.; Echin.; Lach; Pyr. See Pyerma.
We de, incised —- Arn: Calend.; Ham.; Tlyper.; Led.;
taph, .
Wounds, involving muscles, tendons, joints — Calend.
Wounds, lacerated- Arn.; Calend.; Ham.; Led.; Iyper.;
Staph.; Sul. ac.; Symphyt.
Wounds, punctured — Apis; Hyper.; Led., Phaseol.
GENERALITIES 1063

Wounds, with burning, cutting, shooting — Nat. c.
Wounds, with gangresous tendency a alend.; Sul. ac. See
issecting.

LEUCOCYTHEMIA — leukemia: Aran.; drs.; drs. tod.; Bar.
iod.; Benzol; Bry.; Calc. c.3 Ceanoth.; Chin. s.; Con.;
Ferr. picr.; Ipec.; Merc ; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Nux v.; Phos.;
Per. ac.; Thuya See Anemia.

Leucocythemia, splenic -- Ceanoth.; Nat. s.; Quere.; Suc-
cin,

LYMPHANGITIS — Anthrac ; Apis; Ars. iod.; Bell.; Bothrops;
Bufo; Crot.; Echin.: Hippoz.; Lach.; Latrod. k.; Merc.
i. r.3 Merc. s.; Myg; Pyr.; Rhus t.

MARASMUS (emaciation, atrophy, wasting) —- 4brot.; <Acet.
ac,; Ant. iod.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Ars. iod.; Bar. c.; Cale. c.;
Cale. f.; Cale, sil.; Carbo an.; Carbo y.; Caust.; Cetrar.;
Cinch.; Clem.; Ferr. m; Ferr. p., Fluor. ac.; Glycerin;
Helon.; Hep.; Hydr.; lod., Kali iod.; Kali p.; Kreos.;
Led.; Lye., Mag. c.; Merc. c.; Mere. s.; Nat. m.; Ol. 7. as.;
Op.; Phos. ac., Phos.; Plumb. ac.; Plumb, 10d.; Plamb.
m., Psor.; Ricin.; Rhus t.; Samb.; Sanic.; Sars.; Sec.;
Selen.; Sil., Stann.: Staph.; Sul; Syph.; Tereb.; Thuya;
Tub., Uran.; Vanad.; Ver. a., Zinc, m.

Affected parts, atrophy — Ars.; Caust.; Graph.; Led.

Atrophy of children = -{brot ; Arg. n.; 4rs.: Ars. sul.; Bac.;
Bar. c: Cale p., Cak. stl: Tod.; Nat m.; Ol. jg. as.;
Phos.; Pod ; Psor.; Sanic.; Sars.; Sul.; Thyr.; Tub,

Atrophy of face, hands, thighs — Selen.

Atrophy of legs - --fbret.; Am. m.; Arg. n.; Tod.; Pinus
syly ; Sanic ; Tub.

Atrophy of mesenteric glands (tabes mesenterica) — Ars.;
Bapt ; Bar. ¢.; Cale. ars.; Cale. c.; Cale. chlor.; Calc.
hypophos.; Calc. 10d.; Calc. p; Con.; Hep.; Jod.; Mere.
c; Plumb. ac.; Sacchar. of.; Sil.

Atrophy of neck, flabby, loose skin — Abrot.; Calc. p.; Nat.
m.; Sanic ; Sars.

Atrophy, from above, downwards — Lyc.; Nat. m.

Atrophy, from below upwards — Abrot.

Atro hy; aeck so weak, unable to hold bead up — Abrot.;

th. ; Cc. p.

Atrophy, progressive, muscular — Ars.; Carbon. s.; Iyper.;
Phos ; Physost.; Plumb ; Sec.

Atrophy, rapid — Iod.; Plumb. m.; Thuya,

Atrophy, rapid, with cold sweat, debility -—Ars.;  Tub.;

er. a

Atrophy, with bulimia — Abrot.; Acet. ac.; Ars. iod.; Bar.
c.; Cale. ¢.; Con.; Jod.; Nat. m.; Sanic.; Tub.; Thyr.

Atrophy, with shrivelled up look — Abrot.; Arg. ».; Fluor.
ac.; Op; Sil.3’ Sul. .

MUSCLES — Inflammation (myositis): Arn.; Bell.; Bry.; Hep.;
Kali iod.; Meic. s.; Mesz.; Rhus t. pany P

Muscles, pain (myalgia) — Acon.; Ant. t.; Arn.; Ars.; Bell.;
Bellis; Bry.; Carbon. s.; Caust.; Cim.; Coleh.; Dule.;
Gels.; Led.; Marcot.; Merc.; Morph.; Nux v.; Ran. b.;
Rham. cal.; Rhus t.; Ruta; Sal. ac.; Stram.; Strych.;
Macy Ver a; Ver. v. See Rheumatism (Locomotor Sys-
tem).
1064 GENERALITIES

Muscles, pain cramp-like —- Choles ter.; Cim.; Colch.; Col.

Gurr. m.; Mag. p., Nux v.; Op; Plumb. ac.; Sec.; Sul.
yph.; Ver. a.

Muscles, pain, hysterical — Ign.; Nux v.; Plumb.; Puls.

Muscles, soreness, stiffness — Angust.; 4rn.; Bad.; Bapt.
Bell.; Bels, Bry.; Caust.; Cic.; Cim.; Cupr. ac.; Gels.
Guaiac.; Ham; Helon.; Jacar.; Magnol.; Merc.; Myr.
Phyt.; Pyr.; Rhus t.; Ruta; Sang. .

Muscles, twitchings —-Acon.; Agar.; Angust.; Apis; Ars,
Asaf.; Atrop.; Bell.; Bry.; Caust; Cham.; Cic.; Cim.
Cina; Cocc., Cod.; Col.; Croc; Cupr. m.; Ferr. red.
Gels.; Helleb ; Hyos.; Ign.; Kali br.; Kali c.; Lupul.; Mez.
Morph.; Myg.; Nux v.; Op: Phos.; Plumb. ac.; Puls.
Santon ; Sec.; Spig.; Stram.; Strych.; Tar. h.; Ver. v.
Zinc, m.; Zizia.

Muscles, weakness, debility — Acet. ac.;  Alet.; Alumen
Alum.; Am. caust.; Anhal.; .4nt. ¢.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Bry.
Cale. c.; Carbo v; Caust.; Coleh.; Collin.; Con.; Gels.
Helleb.; Welon.: Hep ; lydr.; Ign.; Kali c.; Kal hypophos.
Kal: p.; Kal.: Lob. infl.; Mag. p.; Mur. ac., Nux v.
Onosm.; Pall.; Physal.; Physost.; Picr. ac; Plumb. ac.
Rhus t.; Sarcol. ac.; Sil.; Strvch.; Tab.; Ver. a.; Ver. v.
Zinc. m See Adynamia (Nervous Svstem).

MUTINISM of childhood — Agraph.

MYXEDEMA — aArs.; Prim. ob ; Thyr.

OBESITY (adiposis, corpulence) — Am. br.; Am. c.; Ant. c.
Ars.; Cals. ars.: Cale. c., Calop.; Caps.; Col.; Fucus,
Graph., Jodothyy.; Kali br Tac d.; Mang. ac.; Phos.,
Phyt.; Saba); Thyr.; Tussal. fr.

Obesity, in children— Ant. c; Bar. ¢.3 Cale. c.; Caps,
Ferr, m.; Kali bich.; Sacchar. of.

POLYCYTHEMIA — Phos.

PROPHYLACTICS — Catheter fever: Camph. ac.

Cholera — Ars.; Cupr. ac.; Ver. a.

Diphtheria — Apis (30); Liph. (30).

Erysipelas — Graph. (30).

Hay fever — Ars.; Psor.

Hydrophobia —~ Bell.; Canth ; Hyos.: Strain.

Intermittent fever — Ars.; Chin. 5.

Measles — dcon.; Ars.; Puis.

Mumps — Trifol. 1ep.

Pus infection — Arn.

Quinsy — Bar. c (30).

Scarlet fever — Bell. (30); Eucal.

Variola — Ant. t.; Hydr.; Kali cy.; Malandr., Thuya; Vae-
cin.; Variol, :

Whooping cough — Dros.; Vaccin.

PYEMIA, SEPTICEMIA — 4con.; Anthrac.; Apium y.; Arn;
Ars.; Ars, iod.; Atrop.; Bapt.; Bell.; Bothrops; Brv.;
Calend.; Carb. as.. Chim, urs.; in. s.; Crot.; Echin.;

’*Hippoz.; Hyos,; Irid.; Lack.; Latrod. has.; Merc. cy.;

ere. 5.; 3} ‘iy! bl: Mur. ac.; Nat. sul. carb.; Pyr.;

Rhus t.; Sec., Sepsin; Sil.; Streptococcin; Tar. c.; Ver. a.
1064 GENERALITIES

Muscles, pain cramp-like —- Choles ter.; Cim.; Colch.; Col.

Gurr. m.; Mag. p., Nux v.; Op; Plumb. ac.; Sec.; Sul.
yph.; Ver. a.

Muscles, pain, hysterical — Ign.; Nux v.; Plumb.; Puls.

Muscles, soreness, stiffness — Angust.; 4rn.; Bad.; Bapt.
Bell.; Bels, Bry.; Caust.; Cic.; Cim.; Cupr. ac.; Gels.
Guaiac.; Ham; Helon.; Jacar.; Magnol.; Merc.; Myr.
Phyt.; Pyr.; Rhus t.; Ruta; Sang. .

Muscles, twitchings —-Acon.; Agar.; Angust.; Apis; Ars,
Asaf.; Atrop.; Bell.; Bry.; Caust; Cham.; Cic.; Cim.
Cina; Cocc., Cod.; Col.; Croc; Cupr. m.; Ferr. red.
Gels.; Helleb ; Hyos.; Ign.; Kali br.; Kali c.; Lupul.; Mez.
Morph.; Myg.; Nux v.; Op: Phos.; Plumb. ac.; Puls.
Santon ; Sec.; Spig.; Stram.; Strych.; Tar. h.; Ver. v.
Zinc, m.; Zizia.

Muscles, weakness, debility — Acet. ac.;  Alet.; Alumen
Alum.; Am. caust.; Anhal.; .4nt. ¢.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Bry.
Cale. c.; Carbo v; Caust.; Coleh.; Collin.; Con.; Gels.
Helleb.; Welon.: Hep ; lydr.; Ign.; Kali c.; Kal hypophos.
Kal: p.; Kal.: Lob. infl.; Mag. p.; Mur. ac., Nux v.
Onosm.; Pall.; Physal.; Physost.; Picr. ac; Plumb. ac.
Rhus t.; Sarcol. ac.; Sil.; Strvch.; Tab.; Ver. a.; Ver. v.
Zinc. m See Adynamia (Nervous Svstem).

MUTINISM of childhood — Agraph.

MYXEDEMA — aArs.; Prim. ob ; Thyr.

OBESITY (adiposis, corpulence) — Am. br.; Am. c.; Ant. c.
Ars.; Cals. ars.: Cale. c., Calop.; Caps.; Col.; Fucus,
Graph., Jodothyy.; Kali br Tac d.; Mang. ac.; Phos.,
Phyt.; Saba); Thyr.; Tussal. fr.

Obesity, in children— Ant. c; Bar. ¢.3 Cale. c.; Caps,
Ferr, m.; Kali bich.; Sacchar. of.

POLYCYTHEMIA — Phos.

PROPHYLACTICS — Catheter fever: Camph. ac.

Cholera — Ars.; Cupr. ac.; Ver. a.

Diphtheria — Apis (30); Liph. (30).

Erysipelas — Graph. (30).

Hay fever — Ars.; Psor.

Hydrophobia —~ Bell.; Canth ; Hyos.: Strain.

Intermittent fever — Ars.; Chin. 5.

Measles — dcon.; Ars.; Puis.

Mumps — Trifol. 1ep.

Pus infection — Arn.

Quinsy — Bar. c (30).

Scarlet fever — Bell. (30); Eucal.

Variola — Ant. t.; Hydr.; Kali cy.; Malandr., Thuya; Vae-
cin.; Variol, :

Whooping cough — Dros.; Vaccin.

PYEMIA, SEPTICEMIA — 4con.; Anthrac.; Apium y.; Arn;
Ars.; Ars, iod.; Atrop.; Bapt.; Bell.; Bothrops; Brv.;
Calend.; Carb. as.. Chim, urs.; in. s.; Crot.; Echin.;

’*Hippoz.; Hyos,; Irid.; Lack.; Latrod. has.; Merc. cy.;

ere. 5.; 3} ‘iy! bl: Mur. ac.; Nat. sul. carb.; Pyr.;

Rhus t.; Sec., Sepsin; Sil.; Streptococcin; Tar. c.; Ver. a.
GENERALITIES 1065

RACHITIS (rickets) — Ars.; Ars. iod.; Cale. ec; Cale. c.
Cale. hypoph.; Calc. p.; Calc. sil.; Ferr. Ri Fluor. _ac..
Hekla; Hep.; Jod.; Kah iod.; Merc. s.; Nit. ac; Phos.
ac.; Phos., Pinus sylv.; Sanic.; Stl; Sul.; Supraren. ext.
Ther.; Thuya; Thyr.; Tub. See Scrofulosis.

SCROFULOSIS -— Zthiofs; Alnus; Alum.; <Ars.; Ars. tod.

urums; Bac; Bad.; Barytas; Brom.; Calcareas; Caps.
Carbo an.; Caust.; Cinnab.; Cistus; Clem.; Con.; Diph.
Dulc.; Ferrums; Fluor. ac.; Graph.; Helleb.; Hep.; Hydr.
lodides, Iodof.; Kali bich.; Kali 10d; apis alb.; Lye.
Mag. m.; Mercuries; Mez.; Nit._ac.; Ol, J. as.; Petrol.
Phos. ac.; Phos.; Pinus syltv.; Plumb. iod.: Psor.; Sal.
mar.; Sedum; Si; Still; Sul; Ther.; Tud.; Viola tr.

SCURVY (scorbutus) — Acet. ac; Agave; Alnus; Ars.; Bov.
Carbo v; Chin. s.; Cinch.; Ferr. p.; Galium ap.; Ham.
Kali chlor.; Kali p.; Kreos.; Lach.; Merc. s.; Mur. ac.
Nat. m.; Nit, ac.; Nitro. mur. ac.; Phos. ae.; Phos.
Rhus t.; Staph.; Sul. ac; Sul.; Urium.

SENILE DECAY — Arg. n.; Ars.; Bar. c.; Can. ind.; Con.
lod; Lyc., Oophor.; Phos.; Thiosin.

SENSATION, of burning--— Acon.; Agar.; Agrost.;  Anthrac.
Apis; Ars.; Bell; Calad., Canth., Caps; Carbo an,
Caust.; Cepa; Cham.; Dorvypl..; Kreos.; Ol. an.; Phos. ac.
Phos; Pip. m.; Pop. c.; Rhus t.; Sang.; Sec.; Sul.

ar. .

Sensation, of constriction — Alum. s1].; Anac.; Asar.; Cact.
Caps.; Carb. ac.; Col; Iod.; Lach.; Mag p.; Naja; Nit.
ac., Sec.; Sul.

Sensation, of numbness — Acon.; Agar.; Alum. sil.; Ambra
Ars; Bov.; Cale. p., Ced.; Cham.; Cic.; Cocaine; Cod.
Con.; Helod.; Igr.; Irid.; Kah br; Nux v.; Oleand.
Onosm.; Ox. ac.; Phos.; /’lat., Plumb.; Raph, Rhus t.
Sec ; Stann.; Thallium.

Sensation, of numbness, attending pains—.4con.; Can. ind.
Cham.; Cim.; Kal; Plat; Rhus t, Stann.; Staph.

Sensation, of stitching — Acon.; Asclep.; Brv.; Kah c.; Nat
s.; Nit. ac.; Ren, b.; Rumex, Scilla.

TUMORS — Ananth; Aur. m. n.; Bar. c.; Bar. iod.; Bar. m.
Bellis; Cale. ars.; Cale. ¢.; Calc. _fl.; Cistus; Col.; Con.
Eucal.; Ferr. iod.; Ferr. picr.; Form. ac.; Galium ap.
Graph.; Hekla; Hydr.; Kah br.; Kah iod.; Kreos.; Lach,
Lapis alb.; Lob. erin.; Lyc.; Malandr.; Mancin.; Med.,
Merc, i. 1r.; Mere. per.; Nat. sil.; Phos.; Phyt.; Plumb.
tod.; Psor.; Semperv. t.; Stl: Thiosin.; Thuya; Thyr,
Urea; Unie ac, See Cancer. Cal c

Cystic — Apis; Bar. c.; Cale. c.; Cale. p.; Cale. s.; Jod.; Kali
br.; Platanus; Sil.; Staph. See Scalp (Head); Skin.

Bone-like, protuberances — Cale, f.; Hekla; Lapis alb.; Ma-
landr.; Sil. .

Enchondroma — Calc. fl.; Lapis alb., Sil.

Epithelial — Acet. ac.; Ferr. pier. See Skin.

Epulis — Calc. c.; Plumb. ac.; Thuya.

Erectile a hae Phos ; c

Fibroid — Calc. iod.; Cale. s.; Chrom. s.; Graph.; Hydrast.
mi Kali ‘ed.; Lapis alb.; Sec.; Sil.; Thiosin'; Thyr. See

terus, *
1066 GENERALITIES

Fibroid, hemorrhage — Hydrast. m.; Lapis alb.;  Sab.;
Thiaspi; Trill.; Ustil.

Fungoid —Clem.; Mancin.; Phos.; Thuya.

Ganglion — Benz. ac.; Ruta; Sil.

Lipoma — Bar. c.; Calc. ars.; Calc. c.; Lapis alb.; Phyt.;
Thuya; Uric ac.

Neuroma — Calend.; Cepa.

Nodulated, of tongue — Galium ap.

Papillomata — Ant. c.; Nit. ac.; Staph.; Thuye.

Polypi i — Cale. c.; Cepa; Formica; Kali bich. ; Kali s.; Lemna;

it. ac; Phos.; Psor.; Sang.; Seng. Nes Sil.; Teuer.;

Thuya, See Nose, Ear, Uterus.

Sarcocele — Merc. i. r. See Male Sexual System.

Tumors of urinary passages — Analinum.

Vascular in urethra — (Can. s.; Eucal.

Wen— Bar. c.; Benz. ac.; Calc. c.; Con.; Daphne; Graph.;
Hep.; Kali c.; Mez.
MODALITIES

AGGRAVATION — Acids: — Ant. c.; Ant. t.; Ferr. m.; Lach.;

Merc c., Nux v., Phos, Sep. See Stomach

Afternoon -.tsc; Alum; .Am om; Ars; Bell; Cerchris:
Coce : Coccus, Fagop j 3; Kah bich : Kahc.; Kah ey ; Kal
no; Lak t, Lob. inf; Rhus t.; Sep; Sil; St; Thuya,
Verbase.; Xcrophyl , X ray.

Afternoon, late —Afis, Aran; Carbo v.;  Colch; Col.;
Helieb., Lye., Mag. p.i; Med.; Meli.; Ol. an; Puls.;
Sabad.; Zinc See Evening.

Air cold, dry — \brot., -lcon,, Fee: Agar. : Alum i eirs.;
Asar, Aur. m3; Bac; Rar. c.; Bell; Brv; Cale. c.;
Camph ; Caps.; Caust ; Cham, Cinch; Cistus, Cupr. m,
Cur.; Euphotb dj; Hep; Ign; Kalt “es Mag pe; Mes.,
Nat. c: Nux v; Plumb., Psor , Rhod ; Ramer, Selon;
Sep.; Sil, Spong.: Tub: Urt i. Viola ody Viseum.

Air, open --- con, Agai.. Benz ac. Dey; Cadm. 43 Caps ,
Carbon. «3; Cham.; Cie: Coce: Coff;  Crots Corel,
Epiph.; Ten; Wal; Kreos, Dinar, Nur vw. Ran bh;
Seneac, Solan lyc., ‘hea, N-rav 9 See Air, Cold,

Anger -- /?ry ; Cham, Col; Ign.; Nux i; Staph, See Emo-
tions (Mind).

Arms moved hackward — Sanic.

Ascending stairs -—-Ain c, Ars.; But. ac.: Cact., Cule co;
Can. s ; Coca; Glon ; Aah ¢ , Menyanth.; Spang.

Autumn; warm days, cold, damp nights -- Merc. v.
Bathing ~ tnt. c , Rellis; Cale. ¢.; Caust.; Formica; Mag.
p.; Nux mj; Physost.; Rhus t., a Sul. See Water.

Bed, turning in -— Con; Nua v.3

Beer — Bry.; hah bich, |

Bending double -— Diosc

Bending forward — Hell ; Kal; Nax v.

Biting hard - -Am.c; Verbase

Breakfast, after— Cham.; Nut wv.; Phos.; Thuya; Zine. m.
See Eating.

Breakfast, before -— Croc

Bright objects —- Bell ; Canta.; Coccinel.; Lyssin; Stram.

Brushing teeth -— Coceus; Staph,

Celibacy — Con. ~

Coffee — Aster.; Can. ind; Canth.; Carbo v.; Caust.; Cham.
Ign; Kali c.; Nux v.; Peor.: Thuya.

Coitus, after — Agar.; Calad.; Cale. s.; Cinch.; Kali c.; Nu

; Phos. ac.; Phos.; Selen ; Sep.

Cold— con.; Agar.; Aiumen Alum.: Am. c.3 Ant. c.3 Ars.
Rad; Bar. c.° Bell; Bri Calc c.; Camph.; Caps.
Ceust.; Cham. ; Collins. ; oce.; Coff.; Con.; Crot. case.
Dulce; Formica; Hep.; Ign.; Kali c.; Kali p.;_ Kreos.
Lach.; Lob. infl.; Mag. p.; Merc. ; ; Mez.; Mosch.; Nit. ac.
Nux m.; Nur v.; Ran, b.; Rhod.; Rhus t.; Ruta: Sabad.
Selen ;_ " Sep.; Sit; Spig.: Stram.; Stront.; ; Sul ac.
Tab.;-Ver. a.; Xerophyl.

Concussion —Cic. See Jar.
1068 MODALITIES

Consolation Cacti: Graph.; Helleb.; Ign.; Lil. t.; Nat. m;
Sabal; Sep.; Sil.

Contact, of clothing, about neck— Glon.; Luch.; Sep. See
Touch.

Conversation— Ambra; Coce.; Phos. ac.; Stann. See Talking.

Cough — Ars.; Bry., Cima; llyos.; Phos.; Sep; Tellur. See
Respiratory System

Damp living houses — Ant. t.; Aran.; Ars.; Dule.; Nat. s,
Tereb.

Dampness ---.\mphis.; | .tran.; Ars. iod.; Aster.; Bar. c.
Calc. c.. Calend; Carbo v.; Chimaph.; Chin. s.; Cinch.
Colch,, Crot ; Cur.; ; Dulc.; Elat.; Euphras.s Kah 10d
Lathyr , Ivemna, Magnol.; Mur. ac.; s, Nux m
Petrol, Phyt., Rhod.; Rhus t.; Ruta; Sts Still.; Sul.

Dampness, cold — Am c; Ant. t.; Arn; Asclep. t.; Aster.
tor, Cale. c., Calc, p.; Dulc.; Gels.; Guaiac., Mang ac.
Merc, Nux mj; Nux v; Physal.; Phys, Rhus t, Sail
Thuya; Urt.; Ver. a.

Dampness, warm — Bapt.; Brom.; Carbo v.; Carbon. s.; Gels.
Ham.; Phos.: Sep.

Dark -- 47rs.; Cale. ¢; Carbo an.; Phos.; Stram. See Emo-
trons (Mind).

Daylight to sunset --- Med.

Defecation, after -.Esc. See Stool (Abdomen).

Dentition — .%th.; Bell.: Bor.; Cale. ¢; Cale p.; Cham.;
Kreos.; Phyt.; "Pod : Rheum, Zinc. m. See ‘Teeth

Dinner, after — isn, Nu e Sic Stomach

Direction, diagonally -—- Agar, Bothrops.

Direction, diagonally, upper left, lower right — Agar.; Ant
t; Stram.

Direction, diagonally, up ro right, lower left — Ambra;
Brom.; Med, Phos; Su

Direction, downward — Bor.; ‘Cact.: Kal.; Lyc.; Sani.

Direction, outwards — Kali c.; Sul.

Direction, upwards — Benzin.; Eup. peif.; Led.

Drinking, during — Bell.

Eating — Abies n.; Atsc.; ‘Eth; Agar.; Aloe; Ant c.; Arg.
n, div, Brv., Cale. c.; Carbo «, Caust; Chionanth.
Cina; Cinch; Cace ; Col.; Con; Crot. t.; Dig.: Graph.
Hyos ; Ign.; Ipec.; Wali bich.; Keli c.; Kal p.;\ Kreos.
Lach: Lye, Mag m; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Nur o.; Ol. an.
Petrol; Phos.; Puls.; Rheum: Rumex; Samb.; Sep.; Sil.
Staph.; Strych ; Sul.; Thea, Zine. m. See Tndigestior
(Stomach).

Emotional excitement —- Acon.; Arg. on: Aur.
Cinch.; Cob.; Coce.; Coff.; cen "Colline Col. ; Con.,
Cupr ac.; Gels.: Hyos. ; Ign: Lyssin: Nit. sp d.; Nux

Petrol ; Phos. ac.; Phos.: Sil; Staph. See" Mind.

Erratic, shifting, constantly changing, symptoms — Apis:

. Berb. v.; Jan.; Kah bich; Kali s.; Lac c.; Lil. t.
- Mang. ac.; Pataf.; Phyt ; Puls.; Sanic.; Tub.

£  —Acon., Altal.: Ambra; Am. br; Am. m.; Apel.
Amt. t.; Am.; Bell; Bry.; Cajup.; Carbo v.: Caust.
Cepa; Cham; Colch.; Ciot; Cycl.;  Diose.; Euonym.
MODALITIES 1069

Euphras ; Ferr. p.; Helleb.; Hyos.; Lye., Kah s . Merc.
c.; Alerc.; Mez.; Nit. ac.; Phos., Plat.; Plumb, Puls.,
Ran b.; Rumer; Ruta; Sep.; Sil; Stann; Sul ac,
Syph.; Tab.; Vib. op.; X-ray, Zine. m.

Eyes, closing — Bry.; Sep.; Ther.

Eyes, motion of — Bry., Nux v.; Spig.

Eyes, opening of —- Tab

Fasting — Croc.; lod.

Fats — Carbo v.; Cycl.; Kali m; Puls.

Feet, exposure —Con.; Cupr.; Sul.

Feet hanging down -— Puls.

Fish -- Nat. s; Urt.

Fog --- Bapt.; Gels.; Hyper See Dampness.

Fright — 4Acon.; Gels. Jgn.; OP. Ver a.

Fruit — Ars.; Bry.; Cinch.; Col.; Ipec.; Samb.; Jer. a.

Gaslight — Glon. .

Grief — Aur.; Gels.; Ign.; Phos. ac, Staph.; Ver. a. See
Emotions (Mind)

Hair-cut — Acon.; Bell.; Glon.

Head, uncovering -~— Bell ; Sil. See Air, Cold.

High altitudes -- Coca

Hot drinks -— Chionanth.; Lach.; Stann. :

Inspiration — dcon., Bry; Phos.; Ran. b.; Spig. See
espiratory System.

Intermittently — Anac.; Cinch.; Strych. See Periodical.

Jar -—Arn.; Bell.; Berb. v.; Bry.; Cic.; Crot.; Glon.; Ign.;
Nux v.; Spig.; Ther.

Laughing — Arg, m.; Dros.; Mang. ac.; Phos.; Stann.; Tel-
ur.

Laundry work — Sep.

Left side — Agar.; Arg. n.; Asaf.; Aster.; Bellis; Ceanoth.;
Chimaph.; Cim.; Colch.; Cupr. m.; Eng.; Lach.; Lepid.;
Gil te Ox. ac.; Pulex; Rumex; Sapon.; Ther.; Thuya;

stil,

Light — Acon.; Buil.; Calc. c.; Coca; Con.; Colch.; Graph.;
Ign.; Lyssin; Nux v.; Phos.; Spig.; Stram.

Liquors — Agar.; Ant. c.; Can. ind.; Carbo v.; Cim.; Lach.;

ed.; Nux v.; Ran. b.; Stram.; Sul. ac.; Zinc. m See
Alcoholism (Nervous System).

Localized spots — Coff.; Ign.; Kali bich.; Lil. t.; Ox. ac.

Looking, downwards -—- Acon.; Kai.; Oleand.; Spig.; Sul.

Looking, intently, at objects — Cina; Croc.

Looking, upwards — Benzoin; Calc. c.; Puls.; Sul.

Lower half of body — Bac. t.

Lying down — Ambra; Ant. t.; Arn.; Ars.; Arum; Aur.
Bell.; Can. s.; Caust.; Cenchris; Con.; Croc.; Diosc.
Dros.; Dulc.; Glon.; Hyos.; Iberis; Ipec.; Kreos.; Lach.
Lyc.; Nat. m; Nat. s.; Plat.; Phos.; Puls.; Rhus t.
Rumex; Ruta; Samb.; Sil; Tarax.; Trifol.; X-ray.

Lying, on back — Acet. ac.; Nux v.; Puls.; Rhus t.

Lying, on left side — Arg. n.;  Cact.; Calad.;  Coccus
Iberis; Kok c.; Lye.; Magnol.; Nat. s.; Phos.; Plat.

Lying’ 3 Poet's 3 Viscum.
ing, on pain’ or affected side — Acon.; Ars.; Bar. c.
Calad; Hep. jod.; Kali c.; Nus m; Phos; Rate; Sil
Tellur ; Vib. op.
1070 MODALITIES

‘7

‘
\

Lying, on painless side — Bry.; Cham.; Col; Ptel.; Puls.

Lying, on right side — Can. ind.; Mag. m.; Merc.; Rhus t.;
Scroph.; Stann.

Lying, with head low -~ Ars

Masturbation -~ Calc. c.; Cinch; Con.; Nur wv; Phos. ac.;
Sep.; Staph.

Menses, after — Alum; Bor.; Graph.; Kreos.; Lil. t.; Nat.
m; Nux v.; Sep.; Zinc. m.

Menses, at beginning, and close — Lach

Menses, before — Am. c.; Bov.; Calc. c.; Coce.; Con.; Cupr.
m.; Gels., Lach; Wyc.; Mag. m.; Puls; Sars.; Sep.,

er, a; Zinc. m.

Menses, during — Am. c.; Arg. n.; Bell.; Bov.; Cham.; Cim ;
Con; Graph.; UWyos; Kah c., Mag. c; Nux v; Puls ;
Sep., Si; Sul; Vib op. See Menstruation (Female
Sexual System).

Mental exertion --- Agar.; Anac.; Arg. n.; Aur. m; Cale c;
Cale p.; Cim 3 Coec , Cupr. m.; Gels.; Ign.; Nat. c.; Nat.
m; Nur v.; Phos.; Phos. ac.; Picr. ac.; Sabad.; Sep.;
Sil.; Thymol. See Mind.

Midnight, after — Apis; Ars.; RBell.; Dros.; Ferr. m.; Kal
ce; Kah n.; Nux v.; Phos.; Pod.; Rhus t.; Sil.; Thuya.

Midnight, at —- Aran.; Ars ; Mez.

Midnight, before — Arg _n.; Brom.; Carbo v.; Cham.; Cof ;
Led; Lyc.; Mevc., Mur. ac.; Nit. ac.; Phos.; Puls.; Ran.
s.; Rhus t.; Rumex, Spong ; Stann.

Milk— 4th.; Ant. t.; Cale ¢3 Carbo v.; Cinch.; Hormar.;
Mag. c.; Nit. ac.; Sep.; Sui. ,

Misdeeds of others — Colch.; Staph.

Moon, full — Alum.; Cale. c.; Graph.; Sabad.; Sil.

Moonlight -—~ Ant. c.; Thuya.

Moon, new — Alum.; Caust.; Clem.; Sil.

Morning — 4cal.; Alum.; Ambra; Am, m.; Arg. nj; Aur.
Bry.; Calc. « , Can. ind.; Croc.; Crot.; Fluor. ac.; Glon.
Ign.; Kalt bich.; Kali n.; Lac ¢; Lach.; Lil. t.; Lith. c
Magnol.; Med.; Myg; Nat. m.; Niccol.; Nit. ac.; Nuph.
Nux v.; Onosm.; Phos.; Phos. ac.; Pod.; Puls ; Rhus t.
Rumex; Sep ; Sil.; Stellar.; Strych.; Sul; Verbasc,

Morning, early (2-5 A. M.) — Asth.; Aisc.; Aloe; Am. c.
Bac.; Chel.; Cina; Coccus; Cur.; ‘Kali bich.; Kall c.
Kali_cy.; Kali p.; Nat. 5.3 Nuw v.; Ox. ac.; Pod:; Ptel.
Rhod.; Rumex; Sul.; Thuya; Tub.

Morning, (10-11 A. M.) — Gels.; Nat. m.; Sep.; Sul,

Motion-+r #sc.; Agar.; Am. ¢.; Anhal.; Apis; Bell.; Berb. v.
Bistp.y Bry.; But. ac.; Cact.; Cadm. s.; Calad.; Cale ars.

uph.; Ceanoth.; Cim.; Cinch ; Coce.; Colch.; Cupr. m.
Equis.; Ferr. p.; Gels.; Guaiae., Helon.; beris
«.; Kali m.; Kal; Lac c.; Led; Linar.; Lob. infl.
a PE Meli.; Merc.; Mez.; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Nux m.
Vax w.; Onosm.; Pall.; Petrol; Phyt.; Phos.; Pier. ac.
lat.; Plumb.; Pulex; Puls nut.; Ron. b.; Rheum; Ruta
b.; Sang.; Scilla; Sec.; Senega; Sil; Solan. lyc.; Spig.,
itill.; Strych.; Sul.; Tab.; Tan &.; Thea; Thymol; Viscum.
, downward — Bor. ; Gels,; Sanic.
Motion, on beginning — Puls.; Rhus ¢
MODALITIES 1071

Mountain climbing — 4rs., Coca. S.e Ascending.

Music —.4con.; Ambra; Dig.; Graph, Nat. c.; Nux v.; Pall.
Sab.; Sep.; Thuya.

Narcotics — Rell.; Cham.; Coff., Lach.;: Nus

Night— Acon.; Ant. t.; Arg. n; Arn.; Ars.; Aster.; Bac.

ell.; But. ac.; Cajup.; Camph.; Caust.; Cenchris; Cham.
Chionanth.; Cina, Cinch ; Clem.; Coff.; Colch.; Commocl.
Con.; Crot. case.; Cycl.; Diose.; Dolich.; Dule.; Ferr. om.
Ferr. p.; Gamb.; Graph.; Guaiac.; Hep.; Hyos ; lod.; ins
Kah tod.; Lach.; Lil t.; Mag. m.; Merc. c.; Maerc., Mez.
Nat. m.; Nux m.; Nit. ae.; Phos.; Phyt.; Plat.; Plumb.
Pso; ; Puis.; Rhus t., Rumex; Sep.; S1l.; Sul.; Syph.
Tellur.; ‘hea; Thuya; Ver. a.; Vib. op.j X-ray; Zinc. m
See Eveaing.

Noise -— Acon.; Asar.; Bell.; Bor,; Cham.; Cinch; Cocc.,
Coff.; Colch.; Ferr.; Glon.; Ign.; Mag. m; Nux m.; Nux
v., Onosm.; Phos.; Solan. lyc.; Spig ; Tar. hj; Ther.

One half of body — Cham., 1gn.; Mez.; Puls.; Sil; Spig.
Thuya; Val

Overheating -- 4con.; Ant. c, Bell., Brom.; Bry.; Cale. c

ve; Nur iv,

Pastry, rich food —- Carbo v ; Kali m.; Puls.

Peaches — Cepa; Glon.

People, presenca of -— Ambra.

Periodically — Alum.; Aran; Ars.; Ars. met.; Cact ; Carls ;
Ced; Chrom. ac.; Cinch; Cupr. m; Eup, perf.; Ign.;
TIpec , Kah bich.; Nat. m., Niccol.; Primul. ob.; Nit. ac.;
Ran. s.3 Sep.; Sil; Sul.; Tela ar., Thuya; Urt

Periodically, every alternate day — Alum, Cinch.; Fluor.
ac; Nit. ac.

Periodically, every two weeks -— Niccol.

Periodically, every 2-3 weeks — Ars. met.

Periodically, every 2-4 weeks — Carls.; Ox. ac.; Sul,

Periodically, every 3 weeks — Ars.; Mag. c.

Periodically, every year — Ars; Carbo v.; Lach.; Niccol.;

ul; Thuya; Urt.

Periodically, 4-8 P. M. ~- Lyc ; Sabad.

Periodically, new and full moon — Alum.

Plants, growing near water — Nat. s.

Potatoes -— Alum.

Pressure — Acon.; Agar.; Apis; Par. c.; Cale. ¢.; Cenchris
Cina; Equis.; Guaiac.; Hep.; lod.; Kali c.; ch.; Led.
Lyc.; Merc. c.; Nux v.; Onosm.; Ov. g. p.; Phyt.; Ran. b.
Sil.; Ther. See Touch.

Rest —Acon.; Arn.; Ars.; Asaf.; Aur.; Calc, fi.; Caps.,
Commocl.; Con.; Cycl.; Dulc.; Euphorb.; Ferr. m.; In.
digo; Iris; Kali c.; Kreos.; Lith, lact.; Lyc.; Mag. c.
Menyanth.; Merc.; Oleand.; Puls.; Rhod.; Rhus t.; Sabad.
Samb.; Senega; Sep.; Sul.; Tar. h.; Tarax.; Val.

Riding — Arg. m.; Berb. v.; Caust.; Cocc.; Lyssin; Nux m.
Petrol.; Sanic.; Ther.

Right side — Agay.; Am. c.; Anac.; Apis; Ars.; Bell.; Both
rops; Bry.; Caust.; Chel.; Cinnab.; cone  Crot.; Cur.
Dolich.; Equis.; Ferr. p.; Iod.; Kali c.; Lith. c: Lye.
Mag. p.; Merc.; Phyt.; Pod.; Rhus t.; Sang.; Solan. lyc.
Tar. h.; Viola od.
1072 MODALITIES

Rising —Acon.; Am. m; Ars.; Bell.; Bry.; Caps.; Carbo v.
Coce.; Con.; Dig; Ferr.; s Lach.; Lyce.; Nux v.; Phos.
Phyt.; Puls.; Radium; Rhus t.; Sul.

Room, heated — Acon.; Alum.; “Ant. 3 5 Apis; Aran. sc.
Bapt.; Brom.; Bufo; Cepa; Crat.; Croc.; Euphras.; Glon.
Hyper: 3 Iod.; Kali iod.; Kalt s.; Lil. t.; erc.; Puls.

Vib. op. See Warmth.
Seretekin Anac,; Ars.; Caps ; Dolich.; Merc.; Mez.
Puls. ; Rhus t Stoph.; Sul

Sea bathing S ees ; Mag. m

Seashore —— Aqua m.; Ars.; Brom.; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Syph.

Sedentary habits — Aloe; Am. c.; "Anac.; ; Arg. n.; Bry.; Nuxs

Sep

Shaving, Fifter — Caps.; Carbo an ; Ox, ac.; Plumb.

Sitting — Alum.; Bry.; Caps.; Con.; 3 Cycl.; Dig.; _Dule.
Eauis.; Euphorb.; Ferr. m.; Iydrocot.; Lyc.; Indigu
Kali c.; Nat. c; Nux v.; Phyt.; Plat.; Puls.; Rhus t.
Sep.3 Sul.; Tarax.; Val

Sitting, on cold steps -- Chimaph.; Nur v.

Sleep, after — Ambra; Apis; Bufo; "Cadm. s.; 3 Coce.; Coccus
rat.; | Epiph.; Homar.; Lach.; Merc. c.; Morph.; Op.
Parti; Pier. ac.; Selen.; Spong.; Stram.; Sul.; Syph.
Thasp.; Tub.; Val.

Smoking — Abies n.; Bor.; Can. ind.; Chin. ars.; Cic.; Coce.
Gels.; Ign., hal.; Lact, ac.; Lob. inf; Nux wv; Puls.
Sec.; Spig.; Spong.; Staph.; Stellar.

Sneezing — Ars.; Bry.; Kal c.; Phos.; Sul.; Verbasc. See

Snow, melting — Calc. p.

Snow storm — Con.; Formica; Merc.; Sep.; Urt

Solitude — Bism.; Kah c.; lal. t.; Lyc.; Pall.; “Stram. See
Fears (Mind).

Soup — Kali c. See Fats.

Spices — Nur zv.; Phos.

Spring — Ars. br.; Aur.; Cale. Ri Cepa; Crot ; Dulc.; Gels.;
Kali bich.; Lach.; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Nit. sp. d.; Rhus t;
‘ars

Standing —- .Hsc.; Aloe; Berb. v.; Con.; Cycl.; Lil. t.; Plat.;
Sul., Val.

Stimulants — Ant. c; Cadm. s.; Chionanth.; Fluor. ac;
Glon., Ign.; Led.; Naja; Nux v.; Zine. m.
Storm, before — Bellis; Nas. s.; Psor.; Rhod ; Rhus t.
Stoo ing — Esc. ; Am. co} Bry 3. Cale. c¢.; Glon.; Lyssin;
erc.; Ran. b; Spig.; Sul. ;
Straining, overlifting — Arn.; Cathe an.; Rhus t.; Ruta.
Stretchjng -—— Med.
Sun — 4nt. c.; Bell., Bry.; Cact ; Fagop.; Gels.; Glon.; Lach.;
Tyssin, Nat. <.; Nat. m.; Puls; Selen. See Weather,
Cy
Sup pain -~Glon.; Nat. mj; Sang.; Spig.; Tab.
e Swatlowing — A is; Bell., Brom. ; Bry.; Hep. ; Tlyos.; Lach.;
“te erc. i. fl ere. i. r., Mere.; Nit. ac.; tram,; Sul. See
Dysphagia (Throat).
“Bweatin —Ant. t.: Chin. s.; Hep.; Merc. c.; Merc, s.; Nit.
p.; Phos. ac.; Sep.; ; Stram.
ts — Ant. c.; Arg. n.; Ign.; Lyc.; Med.; Sang.; Zine.
MODALITIES 1073

Talking — Ambra; Anac.; Arg. m.; Arum; Calc. c.; Can. s.
Chin s; Cocc., Mag. mj; Many. ac., Nat. c.; Nat. m.
Phos, ac.; Rhus t.; Selen.; Stann.; Sul.; Verbasc.

Tea — Abies n,; Cinch.; Diosc.; Lob. infl.; Nux v.; Puls.;
Selen.; Thuya.

Temperature, extremes of — Ant. c.; Ipec.; Lach.

Thinking of symptoms — Bar. c.; Calc. p.; Caust.; Gels.;
Helon.; Med.; Nux v.; Ox. ac.; Oxytr.; Pip. m.; Sabad.;

taph.

Thunder storm, before, during — Agar ; Gels.; Med.; Meh;
Nat. c.; Petrol.; Phos.; Phyt.; Psor.; Rhod.; Sep.; Sil.

Tobacco chewing — 4rs.; Ign.; Lyc.; Selen.; Ver a.

Tobacco smoke — Acon.; Cic.; Cocc.; Jgn. See Smoking.

Touch — Acon.; Angust.; Apis; Arn.; Asaf.;_ Bell.; Bor.;
Bry.; Camph.; Caps.; Cham. ; Cic.; Cinch.; Coce., Colch.;
Col.; Commocl., Cupr. ac.; Cupr, m ; Equis.; Euphorb, d.;
Kuphras.; Ferr. p.; Guaiac.; Helon.; Hep.; Hyos.; Ign.;
Kali c., Lach., Lil t., Lye.; Mag. p.; Mez.; Murex; Net.
ac., Nux v.; Oleand ; Ow. ac; Phos.; Plumb. m.; Puls.;
Ran. b.; Rhod, Rhus t.; Sab.; Sang.; Sep.; Si; Spig.;
Staph.; Strych , Sul., Ter. A., Teilur ; Ther.; Urt.; Zinc.
m.

,
,

Traveling — Coca; Plat.

Twilight, to daylight — Aur.; Merc : Phyt.; Syph.

Uncovering -- .\rs.: Benz. ac.; Caps; Dros.; Helleb.; Hep.;
Kah bich.; May. p.; Nux v.; Rheum; Rhus t., Rumex;
Samb.; Sil; Stront. c

Vaccination, after —- Sil.; Thuya.

Veal —Ipec.; Kali n.

Vital drains— Cale. c; Calc. p.; Carbo v.; Cinch; Con;
Kal. c ; Kal p.; Nux v.; Phos., Phos. ac.; Puls.; Selen.;
Sep ; Staph.

Voice, using—-Arg m.; Arg. n.; Arum; Carbo v.; Dros.;
Mang. ac; Nux v.; Phos.; Selen.; Stann.; Wyeth.

Vomiting — Eth.,; Ant. t.; Ars., Cupr. m.; Ipec.; Nur v.;
Puls.; Sal.

Waking -—— Lach.; Nit. ac; Nux v. See Sleep.

Warmth, heat -—— Acon.; th ; Agar.; Alum.; Ambra; Anac.;
Ant. c.; Ant. t.; Apis; Asaf.; Bell.; Bry.; Cale, c.3 Camph.;
Cepa, Cham.; Cinch ; Clem.; Commoct.; Conv.; Dros.;
Euphras.;_Ferr, mj; Fluor. ac.; Gels.; Glon.; Graph;
Guaiac.; Helianth.; Ilyos.; Iberis; Iod.; Jugl. c.; Justicia;
Kali iod.; Kali m., Lach.; Led.; Lye; ed; Merc.; Nat.
c; Nat mj Nit. ac.i Op.; Puls.; Sab.; Séc.; Stellar.; Sul.
ac.; Sul.; Tab. See Weather, Hot.

Warmth of bed — Alum. i Apis: Bellis; | Calc. c.; Cham.;

em.; Dros.; Led.; Lye; ag. ©.;3 erc.; Mez.; Sf
Sab.; Sec, Sul.; Thuya; ‘scum. , 5 Puls.;

Washing, water — Am. c.; Ant. c.; Ars. iod.; Bar. ¢.; Bell.;
Calc. c.; Canth.; Cham.; Clem.; Crot. case; Ferr. m.;
Kreos.; Lil. t.; Mag. p.; Merc.; Mez.; Nat, s.; Nit. ac.;
Rhus t.; Sep.; Sil.; Spig.; Sud; Urt.

Water, drinks cold —Ant. c.; Apoc.; Arg. n.; Ars.; Calc.
c.3 Canth.; Clem,; Coce.; Crot. t.; C ole Dros.; Ferr, m.;
Loh. infl.; Lye; Nux m.; Rhus t.; Sabad.; Spong; Sul.
1074 MODALITIES

Wager, drinks warm — Ambra; Bry.; Lach.; Phos.; Puls.;
ep.
Water, seeing or hearing — Lyssin.

Water, working — Calc. c.; Mag. p

Weather changes — Am. c.; Bry.; Cale. c; Cale. fi.; Cale.
p.; Chel.; Cinch; Dulc.; Mang ac.; Mag. c.; Nat. c.;
Merc.; Nux m.; Phos.; Psor.; Ran. b.; Rhod.; Rhus. t.;
Ruta; Sticta; Sul. See Dampness.

Weather changes, in spring — Ant. t.; Cepa; Gcls.; Kali s.;

at. s.

Weather, dry, cold — Agar.; Alum.; Apoc.; Asar.; Aur.;
Caust.; Dule.; Kah c.; Nit. sp. d.; Nux v.; Petrol; Rhus
t; Viscum. See Air, Cold.

Weather, hot — Acon.; Aith; Aloe; Ant. c., Bell.; Bor.,
Bry.; Croc.; Crot; Crot. t.; Gels.; Glon.; Kal bich.;
Lach.; Nat. ¢; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Phos.; Pod., Puls ;
Sab.; Selen.; Syph. Sce Sun.

Weather, stormy — Nux m.; Ran. b; Rhod.; Rhus t.

Weather, windy, dry -—— Acon., Arum; Cham.; Hep.; Lye ;
Nuv¢ v., Phos.; Puls.; Rhod.

Weather, windy, moist —- Ccpa; Euphras., Ipec.; Nux m3;

od.

Weeping —Cham.; Nat m, Puls.; Sep.; Stann. .

Wet applications — Am. c.; Ant. c.; Cale. c.; Clem.; Crot.;
Merc.; Rhus t.; Sul. See Washing.

Wet exposure — Aui. c., Apis, Aran; Ars; Calc. c.; Cepa;
Dule., Mcli.; Merc.; Narcissus; Nat s.; Nux m, Phyl;
Picr, ac.; Ran. b.; Rhod ; Rhus t.; Ruta; Sep. See Damp-
ness,

Wet feet — Calc. c; Cepa; Puls ; Rhus #.; Sil.

Wine — Alum.; Ant. c.; Arn.; Ars.; Carbo v.; Con.; Fluor.
ac.; Led.; Lye.; Nuz v.; Op.; Ran. b; Sil.; Zine. m.

Yawning -- Cina; Ign.; Kreos , Nux v.; Rhus t; Sars.

Yearly — Lach.; Rhus r.

AMELIORATIONS — Acids: [Ptel.; Sang.
Air, cool, open — 4Acon.; Aisc.; Aith.; Aloe; Alum.; Ambra;
Am_m.; Amyl; Ant. c.; Ant. t; Apts; Arg. n., Asaf.; Bar.
c.; Bry.; Bufo; Cact.; Can, ind.; Cepa; Cinch. ; Clem.; Coca;
Commocl.; Conv.; Crat.; Croc.; Dig.; Diosc,; Dros.; Dulc.;
Eyonym.; Euphras.; Gels.; Glon.: Graph.; Kali iod.; Kal
re t.3 Lyc.; Mag. c.; Mag. m.; Merc. i, r.; Mez ;
sch.; Naja; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Ol. an.; Phos.; Picr. ac.;
«Plat.; Puls; Radium; Rhus t.; Sabad.; Sab.; Cc. Sep;
tellar.; Strych. p.; Sul; Tab.; Tor. h.; Vib. op. See
Warmth (Aggravation).
We,.cool, must have windows open— Amyl; Arg. n.; Calc.
‘ Each; Med.; Pwis.; Sul. See Asthma (Respiratory
‘ m).
Air, warm — Aur. m.; Cale. c.; Caust.; Led.; Mag. ¢.; Mere.;
toy Petrol; Rhus t. See Warmth.
“4 ing — Acon,; Apis; Ars.; Asar.; Caust.; Euphras.; Puls.;
iS pag.
1074 MODALITIES

Wager, drinks warm — Ambra; Bry.; Lach.; Phos.; Puls.;
ep.
Water, seeing or hearing — Lyssin.

Water, working — Calc. c.; Mag. p

Weather changes — Am. c.; Bry.; Cale. c; Cale. fi.; Cale.
p.; Chel.; Cinch; Dulc.; Mang ac.; Mag. c.; Nat. c.;
Merc.; Nux m.; Phos.; Psor.; Ran. b.; Rhod.; Rhus. t.;
Ruta; Sticta; Sul. See Dampness.

Weather changes, in spring — Ant. t.; Cepa; Gcls.; Kali s.;

at. s.

Weather, dry, cold — Agar.; Alum.; Apoc.; Asar.; Aur.;
Caust.; Dule.; Kah c.; Nit. sp. d.; Nux v.; Petrol; Rhus
t; Viscum. See Air, Cold.

Weather, hot — Acon.; Aith; Aloe; Ant. c., Bell.; Bor.,
Bry.; Croc.; Crot; Crot. t.; Gels.; Glon.; Kal bich.;
Lach.; Nat. ¢; Nat. m.; Nit. ac.; Phos.; Pod., Puls ;
Sab.; Selen.; Syph. Sce Sun.

Weather, stormy — Nux m.; Ran. b; Rhod.; Rhus t.

Weather, windy, dry -—— Acon., Arum; Cham.; Hep.; Lye ;
Nuv¢ v., Phos.; Puls.; Rhod.

Weather, windy, moist —- Ccpa; Euphras., Ipec.; Nux m3;

od.

Weeping —Cham.; Nat m, Puls.; Sep.; Stann. .

Wet applications — Am. c.; Ant. c.; Cale. c.; Clem.; Crot.;
Merc.; Rhus t.; Sul. See Washing.

Wet exposure — Aui. c., Apis, Aran; Ars; Calc. c.; Cepa;
Dule., Mcli.; Merc.; Narcissus; Nat s.; Nux m, Phyl;
Picr, ac.; Ran. b.; Rhod ; Rhus t.; Ruta; Sep. See Damp-
ness,

Wet feet — Calc. c; Cepa; Puls ; Rhus #.; Sil.

Wine — Alum.; Ant. c.; Arn.; Ars.; Carbo v.; Con.; Fluor.
ac.; Led.; Lye.; Nuz v.; Op.; Ran. b; Sil.; Zine. m.

Yawning -- Cina; Ign.; Kreos , Nux v.; Rhus t; Sars.

Yearly — Lach.; Rhus r.

AMELIORATIONS — Acids: [Ptel.; Sang.
Air, cool, open — 4Acon.; Aisc.; Aith.; Aloe; Alum.; Ambra;
Am_m.; Amyl; Ant. c.; Ant. t; Apts; Arg. n., Asaf.; Bar.
c.; Bry.; Bufo; Cact.; Can, ind.; Cepa; Cinch. ; Clem.; Coca;
Commocl.; Conv.; Crat.; Croc.; Dig.; Diosc,; Dros.; Dulc.;
Eyonym.; Euphras.; Gels.; Glon.: Graph.; Kali iod.; Kal
re t.3 Lyc.; Mag. c.; Mag. m.; Merc. i, r.; Mez ;
sch.; Naja; Nat. m.; Nat. s.; Ol. an.; Phos.; Picr. ac.;
«Plat.; Puls; Radium; Rhus t.; Sabad.; Sab.; Cc. Sep;
tellar.; Strych. p.; Sul; Tab.; Tor. h.; Vib. op. See
Warmth (Aggravation).
We,.cool, must have windows open— Amyl; Arg. n.; Calc.
‘ Each; Med.; Pwis.; Sul. See Asthma (Respiratory
‘ m).
Air, warm — Aur. m.; Cale. c.; Caust.; Led.; Mag. ¢.; Mere.;
toy Petrol; Rhus t. See Warmth.
“4 ing — Acon,; Apis; Ars.; Asar.; Caust.; Euphras.; Puls.;
iS pag.
MODALITIES 1075

Bathing, cold — Bufo; Meph ; Nat. m.; Sep.

Bathing, vinegar -—— Vcspa.

Bathing,, warm — Ant. c.; Bufo; Radium; Stront.; Thea.

Bending, double — Aloe; Cinch.; Col.; Mag. p. See Pressure

Bending, forward — Gels.; Kali c.

Boring into, nose, ears —- Nat. c.; Spig.

Breakfast, after -— Nat s; Staph. See Eating.

Carrying — Ant. t.; Cham.

Chewing --- Bry ; Cupr. ac.

Coffee —— Euphras ; Flue: ae.

Cold = -Bellis, Bor; Bev., Cepa; Fagop.; Ied.; Led.; Lyc.;
Onosm.; Op.; Phos., Sec

Cold applications, washing —- Alum.; Apis, Asar.; Bell.;
Ferr. p; Kah mj; Merc.; Phos; Puls, Sab. See Bathing

Cold water — Agar em.; Aloe; Ambra: Bry ; Camph.; Can.
ind.: Canst., Cupr. m.; Fagop.; ed., Phos.; Pier. ac.;
Puls , Sep.

Colors, objects, bright — Stram., Tar. h.

Combing hair — Formica

Company — th: Bism.; Kah c; Lal. t.; Lyc.; Stram.

Consolation -—— Puls.

Conversation -—— Eup. perf.

Coughing —Stann. Sce Respiratory System.

Covering iight —— Scc

Dark ~ Coca; Con; Euplras., Graph.; Phos.; Sang.

Day, during -- Kalic.; Syph. See Aggravations.

Days, alternating - ~ Alum.

Descending -— Spong

Discharges, appearances of — Lach.; Mosch.; Stann.; Zinc.
m

Drawing limbs up —- Sep.; Sul ; Thuya.

Drinks, cold —- Ambra; Cupr m.

Drinks, warm— Alum., Ars; Chel.; Lyc.; Nux v.; Sabad.
Spong. See Warm.

Eating — Acct. ac.; lum.; Anac.; Brom.; Cad. m.; Caps
Chel., Cim.; Cistus; Con.; Ferr ac.; Fetr. m.; Graph.
Hep.; Homar.; Ign ; lod.; Kali p.; Wach.; Lith. c.; Nat. c.
Nat. m.; Onosm., /’etrol.; Phos.; Pip. nig.; Psor.; Rhod.
Sep.; Spong.; Zine. m.

Eructations — Ant t.; Arg. n.; Bry.; Carbo v.; Diosc.; Graph.
Ign.; Kah c.; Lye.; Mosch.; Nux v.; Ol. an.; Sang.

Evenings — Bor.; Lob. infl.; Niccol.; Nux v.; Steller.

Excitement, pleasurable — Kali p.; Pall.

Exercise — Alumen; Brom; Plumb. m.; Rhus t.; Sep. See
Walking.

Expectoration — Ant, t.; Ilep.; Stann.; Zinc. m. See Respira-
tory System.

Expulsion of flatus, per ano — Aloc; Arn.; . pes .
ae Grat.; Hep.; ink; Kali n.; Mez. ; Gale. ps Corn

Fanned, being - Arg 1.; Carbo v.; Cinch.; Lach; Med.

Fasting — Cham.; Con.; Nat. m.

Feet in ice water --Led.; Sec.

Food cold ~— Bry.; Lyc.; Phos.; Puls.; Sil.
1076 MODALITIES

Food warm — Kreos.; Lyc. See Aggravations.

Forenoon, in — Jil. t.

Head bent backward — Hyper.; Senega

Head bent forward, while lying — Col.

Head elevated — Ars.; Gels.

Heat — Ars.; Caps.; Gymnocl ; Xcrophyl. Sec Warmth.

Ice, holding in mouth — Coff.

Inland, mountains — Syph.

Inspiration — Colch.; Ign.; Spig. See Respiratory System.

Lemonade — Cycl.

Light — Stram.

Limb hanging down — Con

Lying down — Acon.; Anhal.; Arn.: Bell.; Bellis; Bry.;
Calad ; Cale. ¢.; Coff.: Colch.; Equis.; Ferr. m.; Mang.
ac.; Nat. m.; Nux v.: Onosm.; Picr. ac.; Pulex; Puls;
Radium; Stann.; Strych.; Symphor.

Lying, on back, with shoulders raised — Acon.; Ars.

Lying, on left side —Ign.; Mur. ac.; Nat. m.; Stann. See
Aggravations.

Lying, on painful side — Ambra; Am. c.; Arn.; Bor.; Bry.;
Cale. ¢ 3 Col.; Cupr. ac; Ptel.; Puls.; Sul. ac. See Pres-
sure.

Lying, on right side — Ant. t.; Nat m.; Phos,, Sul; Tab.
See Aggravations.

Lying, on right side, with head high — Ars ; Cact.; Spig.;
Spong ;

Lying, on stomach — 4c¢?. ac.; Am. c.; Ant. t: Col.; Med;

‘od., Tab.

Lying, with head high --— Puls.; Spig.

Lying, with head low — Arn.; Spong.

Menses, between — Bell.; Bov.; Elaps; Ham.; Magnol.

Menses, during —Am. c.; Cycl.; Lach; Zinc. m. See Fe-
male Sexual System.

Mental occupation — Kali br.; Helon.; Nat. c.

Midnight, after —Lyc. See Night.

Midnight, until noon — Puls.

Mind being diverted — Calc. p.; Helon.; Ox. ac.; Pip. menth.;

‘ar. h. °

Mornings — Apis; Jugl. c.; Still.; Xerophyl.

Motion — Abrot.; sc.; Alum.; Ars.; Asaf.; Aur.; Bell.;
Bellig; Brom.; Caps.; Cinch.; Coca; Coccus; Commoecl.;
Comp 'Cyel.; Diose.; Dulc., Euphorb.; Ferr. m.; Fluor. ac.;
Gets; Helon.; Homar.; Indigo; Iris; Kali ce. Kali iod.;
Kali p.; Kreos.; Lith. c; Lith. lact.; Lob. infl.; Lyc.:

c.; Mag. mj; Magnol.; Menvanth.; Nat. c; Op.;
-4 Pip, ‘menth; Plat.; Puls.; Pyr.; Radium; Rhod.;
t.; Sabad.; Samb.; Sep.: Stellar.; Sul; Syph; Val.;
a; Xerophyl; Zinc. m.
.-» Slow — Agar.; Ambra; Ferr. ac.; Ferr. m.; Plat.;
_ ann.; Zinc. m.

Mouth, cevered — Rumex.

Music — Tar. h.

Rips See. ac.

wu ‘applications — Euphorb. d.
MODALITIES 1077

Position, change of --- Apis; Jgn.; Nat. s.; Phos. ac.; Rhus
t.; Val.; Zinc. m.

Position, hands and feet — Kup perf.

Position, semi-erect —- Ant. t.; Apis; Bell. Sec. Rest.

Pressure — Ary. n.; Asaf ; Bor.; Bry.; Caps ; Chel.; Cinch;
Col, Con.; Cupr. ac; Diese, Dros.; Evonym ; Formica;
Guaiac.; Jgn., Indigo; Lil t, Mag. m.; Mag p, Mcnyanth.;

at. c.; Nat. m, Nats; Nux v.; Picr. ac.; Plumb m.;

Puls.; Radiwm; Sep., Sil; Stann.; Ver. a.

Putting feet on chair Con

Rest —- stsc., Ant oc.. Bell.; Bry; Cadm gs: Can. ind;
Col.h.; Crat.; Gymnoel , Mere. c.3 Nua ov; Phyt; Pulex;
Sclla, Staph; Strych ps Vab. op.

Riding in carriage Nit ac.

Rising -- Ambra, Am. c; Ars.; Cale c; Lith co; Path;
Sambh.; Sep

Rocking — Cina, Kali c

Room close, in - Buphorh d= Sec Warmth.

Rubbing — Anac , Cale c., Canth., Cath. ac: Tiose ; For-
mica; Indigo, Alay. p. Nat c+ OJ an, Phos, Plumb. m ;
Pod.; Rhus t.: See; Tar. h

Scratching — Asaf: Cah. c., Commocl ; Cyel ; Jugl c, Mur,
ac.; Nat c, Phos; Sul

Sea, at -— Brom

Seashore, at --- Mid

Shaving, after — Brom.

Sipping water -- Kali 1.

Sitting erect — Ant. t. Apis, Bell

Sitting up in bed — Kal: c., Samb.

Sleep -~ Calad.; Colch., Mere, Myg.; Nux 7; Phos; Sang.;

ep.

Smoking -~ Aran; Tar. c.

Standing erect --.\1© ; Bell.; Diose , Kal p.

Stimulants — Gols ; Glon.

Stooping — Colch

Storm, after — Rhod

Stretching limbs — .\myl; Plumb. m.; Rhus t.; Sec.; Teuer.

Summer, during —- Alum ; Aur. m; Cale. p; Ferr, m.; Sil.
See Warmth

Sweat -- Acon.; Ars; Calad , Cham., Cupr. m.; Franciscea;
Rhus t.; Ver. a See Fever.

Taking hold of anything — Anac.

Thinking of symptoms -- Camph.; Helleh.

Touch — Asaf.; Cale. c.; Cycl.; Mur. ac.; Tarax ; Thuya.

Uncovering — Apis: Lyc.; Onosm.; Sec.; Tab See Aggrava-
tions,

Urination — Gels ; Ign.; Phos. ac ; Sil.

Vomiting — Helianth.

Warmth, heat — 4rs.. Aur. m.; Rad.; Bry.; Calc. fl; Camph.;
Caust.; Cim.; Col.. Collins.; Coff.; Coral.; Cupr. ac.; Cyel.;
Duic.; Formica; Hep., Ign.; Kali bich.; Kali p.; Kreos.;
1078 MoDALITIES

Lach.; Tob, infl.; Lye.; Mag. p.; Nux m.; Nux v.; Phos.
ac; Phyt; Psor.; Rhod.; Rhus t.; Rumez; Sabad.; Sep.;
§il.; Solan. lyc.; Staph.; ‘Stram.; 3 Sul. ac.; Thea; Ver. a.

Warmth, heat of, applications — Ars. ; Bry.; Calc. fl.; Lech. ;
Mag. p.; Nux. m hus t.; Sep.

Wermch,, ‘of head — Bell.; Graph.; Wep.; Psor.; Sanic.; Sil.

Water, cold — Aloe; Bry.; 3 Caust.; Jatropha; Phos.; Sep.

Water, hot — Spig.

Weather, damp, wet — Alum.; Asar.; Caust.; Hep.; Med.;
Mur. ac; Nux v.

Weather, damp, warm — Cham.; Kali c.; Su.

Weather, dry — Am. c.; Calc. c.; Kali c ; Magnol.; Still.
See Aggravations,

Weather, dry, warm — Calc. p.} Nat. s.; Nux m.; Rhus t.:
Sul. See Summer.

Wine — Coca.

Winter, during — Ilex.
THERAPEUTIC INDEX
THERAPEUTIC INDEX

Any attempt to select the proper homceopathic remedy
for any case except by the study of the totality of
symptoms must prove futile. In order to prescribe
homeeopathically, the essentials for so doing must be
observed, —i. ¢., to lect the characteristic symptoms of
the individual patient, largely independent of the path-
ological nature of the case, be paramount in selecting
the remedy.

Such characteristics are found especially —

(1) In the location or part affected;

(2) In the sensations ;

(3) In the modalities.

The study of the repertory alone will give the in-
dicated remedy. But throughout this work are found
numerous suggestiuns for remedies based on clinical
observations or deductions from partial prevings, all
of which may prove most valuable additions to our
Materia Medica if further verified at the bedside. As
many of them have no place as yet in our published
repertories, 1 have thought it advisable to give them
a place with others in this therapeutic index, in order
to bring them to the attention and further study of the
physician. At best, a clinical index is but suggestive.
Abscess — Bellad.: Merc.; Hepar; Silica; Ananther.
Acidity — Calc.; Robin.; Sulph. ac.; Nux.

Acne— Kal. brom.; Cimicif.; Berb. aquif.; Led.; Hy-
drocot.; Antimon.; Kali brom.

—— Rosacea — Oophor.; Kreos.; Sulph.; Carb. an.;
Radium,

Acromegaly — Thyroid.

Actinomycosis- - Nitr. ac.; Hippoz.; Hecla.

Addison’s disease — Adrenalin; Ars.; Phos.; Calc. ars.

Adenitis — Hell.; Merc.; Cist.; Iod.
1082 THERAPEUTIC INDEX

Adenoids — Agraphis; Calc. iod.

Addison’s disease

After-pains — Bell.; Cauloph.; Magnes. phos. “&** ~

Agalactea— Agnus; Asaf.; Puls.; Urtica; Lactuca;
Galega.

Ague — Nat. mur.; China; Cedron.

Albuminuria — Am, benz.; Kalm.; Helon.; Aferc. cor.;
Euony.; Eup. pur.; Osmium; Ars.

Alcoholism — Avena; Sulph. ac.; Caps.; Nux; Ichthy.;
Quercus,

Alopecia — Fluor. ac.; Pix 1.; Ars.

Amenorrhea — Acon.; Puls.; Grap.; Nat. m,

Anasarca — Liatris.

Anzmia— Chin.; Ferr.; Nat. m.; Ferr. cit. chin.; Ars.;
Calc. phos;. Helon.

Aneurism — Baryia; Verat. vir.; Lycop.

Angioma — Abrotan.

Angina Pectoris— Hamatox ; Latrodect.; Oxal. ac.;
Spig.; Naja: Glonoin 2x.

Antrum — Hep.; Nit. ac.; K. bich.; Euphorb. amyg.

Aphasia — Bothrops; Stram.; Kal. brom.

Aphonia — Alumen: Arg. m.; Nit, ac.; Caust.: Oxal.
ac.; Spongia; Aurum.

Aphthe — -Ethus.; Borax; Merc.; Nit. ac.; Kal, mur.;
Hydr. mur.

Apoplexy — Op.: Phos.; Arnica; Beilad,

Appendicitis — Echin.; Bellad.; Laches.; Iris tenax.

Arterial tension lowered — Gels.

Arterial tension raised — Verat. vir.; Viscum.

Arf@tiosclerosis -- Am. iod.; Plumb, iod.; Polyg. avic.;
Baryta; Glonoin 2x; Aurum; Carduus.

Arthritis — Arbut.; Sulph. ter.; Bry.; Elater.

Ascarides — Abrotan.; Sabad.; Cina; Spig.

Ascites — Acet. ac.; Apocyn.; Helleb.; Apis; Ars.; Dig.

Asthenopia -- Nat. mur.; Ruta; Croc.; Senega.
THERAPEUTIC INDEX 1083

Asthma — Alumen; Aspidos.; Cupr.; Nux; Ipec.; Nat.
sulph.; Samb.; Aralia; Kali nit.

Astigmatism (myopic) — Lilium.

Atrophy — Ol. jecor.; Iod.; Abrot.; Ars.

Auto-intoxication — Skatol; Indol.

Azoturia — Caust.; Senna.

Backache — Pulex; Oxal. ac.; 7Esc.; Rhus; Puls.; Kal.
carb.; Cimicif.; Nux; Ant. tart.; Variol.

Balonitis — Merc.

Barber’s Itch — Sulph. iod.; Thuja.

Bed-sores — Fluor. ac.; Arn.; Sulph. ac.

Bell’s Paralysis — Am. phos.; Causticum; Zinc. pic.

Beri Beri — Elater.; Rhus.; Ars.

Biliousness — Yucca: Euony.; Bry.: Pod.; Merc.;

_ Sulph.; Nux; Nyctantes; Chelidon,

Bladder (irritable) — Eup. purp.; Copaiv.; Ferr.; Nux;
Apis.

—— Hemorrhage — Amygd.; Hamam.; Nit. ac.

Blepharitis — Puls.; Graph.; Merc.

Blepharospasm — Agaric.; Physost.

Blood-pressure — High — Baryta mur.; Glonoin.; Aur.
mur, nat.

Boils — Bells; Calc. pic.; Fer. iod.; Ol. myr.; Bell;
Sil.; Hep.; Ichthyol.

Bone Affections — Aurum; Calc. phos.; Fluor. ac;
Ruta; Mezer.; Silica; Symphyt.

Borborygmi — Hzmatoxy!l.

Bradycardia (slow pulse) — Abies nig.; Digit; ‘Kalm.;
Apocn, can.

Brain, Softening — Salamand ; Phos.

Brain-fag — Anhalon.; Zinc.; Phos.; Anacard.; Sil.

Bright’s Disease — Ars,; Phos, ac.; Apis; Merc, cor.;
Tereb.; Kali cit.; Natrum mur.

Bromidrosis — Silica ; Cale; Butyr. acid,
1084 THERAPEUTIC INDEX

Bronchitis — Acon.; Bry.; Phos.; Tart. e.; Fer. phos.;
Sang.; Pilocarp.
—— (chronic) — Ammoniac; Ars.; Seneg.; Sulph,
Broncho-pneumonia — Kali bich.; Tart emet.; Tuberc. ;
Phos. ; Squilla.
Bronchorrhea— Ammoniacum; Eucalyp.; Bals. Peru;
Stan.
Bulbar Paralysis — Guaco; Plumb.
Bubo — Merc.; Nit. ac.; Carb. an.
Burns — Cantharis; Urtica; Picric acid.
Bursz — Benz. ac.; Ruta; Sil.
Calculi (biliary) — China; Berberis; Chelidon.
—— (renal) — Berberis; Pareira; Sarsap.
Hydr.; Kal. cyan. (tongue) ; Fuligo.
Cancer — Semp. viv.; Ars.; Hyd.; Ant. chlor.; Galium;
— Mammez — Aster.; Con.; Plumb. iod.
—— Pains — Euphorb.
Cancrum Oris — Secal.; Kreos.; Ars.; Baptis.
Carbuncles — Anthrac; Ledum; Tar. cub.; Ars.; Lach.;
Silic.
Cardiac Dropsy — Adonis; Digit.
Cardiac Dyspnoea — Acon. ferox.; Aspidos.
Cardialgia — Fer. tart.
Cardio-vascular spasm — Actaea spicata.
Caries — Aur.; Asaf.; Sil.; Phos.
Caruncle, Urethral — Eucalypt.
Catalepsy — Curare; Hydroc. ac.; Can. ind,
Cataract— Cineraria; Phos.; Platanus; Quass.;
ose Naphth.; Cale. fluor.
Ca arrh (chronic) — Anemopsis; Nat. sulph.; Aur.;
Eucaly.; Kal. bich.; Puls.; Sang. nit.; Nat. carb.
Cellulitis — Apis; Rhus; Vespa.
*Kerebro-spinal Meningitis — Cicut.; Zinc. cyan.; Cupr.
acet.; Helleb. |

Ghancre — Merc. bij.; Merc. prot.; Merc. sol.; Kali iod.
PA AT bar
1084 THERAPEUTIC INDEX

Bronchitis — Acon.; Bry.; Phos.; Tart. e.; Fer. phos.;
Sang.; Pilocarp.
—— (chronic) — Ammoniac; Ars.; Seneg.; Sulph,
Broncho-pneumonia — Kali bich.; Tart emet.; Tuberc. ;
Phos. ; Squilla.
Bronchorrhea— Ammoniacum; Eucalyp.; Bals. Peru;
Stan.
Bulbar Paralysis — Guaco; Plumb.
Bubo — Merc.; Nit. ac.; Carb. an.
Burns — Cantharis; Urtica; Picric acid.
Bursz — Benz. ac.; Ruta; Sil.
Calculi (biliary) — China; Berberis; Chelidon.
—— (renal) — Berberis; Pareira; Sarsap.
Hydr.; Kal. cyan. (tongue) ; Fuligo.
Cancer — Semp. viv.; Ars.; Hyd.; Ant. chlor.; Galium;
— Mammez — Aster.; Con.; Plumb. iod.
—— Pains — Euphorb.
Cancrum Oris — Secal.; Kreos.; Ars.; Baptis.
Carbuncles — Anthrac; Ledum; Tar. cub.; Ars.; Lach.;
Silic.
Cardiac Dropsy — Adonis; Digit.
Cardiac Dyspnoea — Acon. ferox.; Aspidos.
Cardialgia — Fer. tart.
Cardio-vascular spasm — Actaea spicata.
Caries — Aur.; Asaf.; Sil.; Phos.
Caruncle, Urethral — Eucalypt.
Catalepsy — Curare; Hydroc. ac.; Can. ind,
Cataract— Cineraria; Phos.; Platanus; Quass.;
ose Naphth.; Cale. fluor.
Ca arrh (chronic) — Anemopsis; Nat. sulph.; Aur.;
Eucaly.; Kal. bich.; Puls.; Sang. nit.; Nat. carb.
Cellulitis — Apis; Rhus; Vespa.
*Kerebro-spinal Meningitis — Cicut.; Zinc. cyan.; Cupr.
acet.; Helleb. |

Ghancre — Merc. bij.; Merc. prot.; Merc. sol.; Kali iod.
PA AT bar
THERAPEUTIC INDEX 1085

Cheyne-Stokes Respiration — Grind.; Morphin.; Par-
then.

Chicken-pox — Tart. ¢.; Rhus; Kal, mur.

Chilblains — Abrot.; Agar.; Tamus; Plantag.

Chloasma — Sep.; Paull.

Chlorosis — Ars.; Ferr.; Helon.; Cupr.; Puls.

Cholera — Camph.; Verat.; Ars.; Cupr.

Cholera Infantum — 7=thus.; Cuphea; Cal. phos.

Chordee — Canth.; Safix; Yohimb.; Lupul.; Agave.

Chorea — Absinth.; Agar.; Hippom.; Mygal.; Tan-
acet.; Tarant. hisp.; Ignat.; Zinc.; Cimcif

Ciliary Neuralgia — Prunus; Spig.; Sapon.; Cinnab.

Cirrhosis of Liver — Nasturt.; Nat. chol.; Merc.

Climacteric Flushings — Amy! nit.; Lach.; Sang.;
Cimic. ; Sep,

Coccygodynia — Caust.; Silica,

Colic — Cham.; Mag. phos.; Diosc.; Plumb.

Colic, Renal — Eryng; Pareira.

Colitis — Merc. dulc.; Aloes.

Collapse -- Camph.; Morph.; Verat.; Ars.

Color-blindness — Benzin.; Carb. sulph.

Coma — Opium; Piiocarp.; Bell.

Comedones — Abrotan.; thiops.; Baryta.

Condylomata — Cinnab. ; Nat. sulph.; Nit. ac. ; Thuja.

Conjunctivitis — Acon.; Puls.; Euphr.; Guar.

Constipation— Opium; Hydr.; Iris; Verat.; Mag.
mur.; Nux; Paraf.; Lac defl.; Tan. ac.; Mag.
phos. ; Sulph.; Alumina.

—— (in children) — #sc.; Collins.; Bry.; Alumina;
Paraf.; Psorin.

Convulsions — Hydroc. ac.; Laburn.; Cupr.; Cicut.;
Bell.; CEnanth.

Corns — Ant. crud.; Graph.; Sil.

Coryza—Cepa; Penthor.; Nat mur.; Quillaya Gels.;
Euphras.; Acon.; Ars,
1086 THERAPEUTIC INDEX

Congh (dry) — Alum.; Bell.; Hyos.; Lauro.; Con.;
Mentha; Rumex:; Spongia; Sticta.

—— (laryngeal)— Nit. ac.; Brom.; Caps.; Caust.;
Lach.

—— (hoarse) —Bry.; Hep.; Phos.; Samb.; Spong.;
Verbase.

—— (loose) Kal. sulph.; Tart. e.; Ipec.; Merc.; Puls.;
Squilla; Stannum; Coccus ec.

—— (phthisical) — All. sat.; Cr&tal.; Phelland.; Naja.

—— (nervous) — Ambra; Ignat; Hyos.; Kali brom.

—— (spasmodic) —Corall.; Dros.; Mephit.; Cupr.;
Mag. phos.; Bellad.; Ipec.; Coccus c.

Cracked Lips — Condur.; Graph.; Nat. mur.

Croup— Acon.; Hep.; Kaolin; Spong.; Brom.; Iod.;
Kali bich.; Sang.

Cyanosis — Tart. emet.; Carbo; Cuprum; Laclhies.;
Laurocer.; Opium.

Cystitis — Fpigea: Saurur.; Popul.; Canth.; Chimaph.;
Tereb.

Cysts —- Iod.; Apis.

Dandruff — Kal. sulph.; Ars.; Lyc.; Badiaga..

Day-blindness — Bothr.

Deafness — Calend.; Puls.; H»dr.; Graph.

Debility — Chin.; Phos. ac.; Ars.; Curar,

—— (after gout) — Cyprip.

Delirium — Bell.; Hyos.; Agar.

Dentition — Bell.; Calc. phos.; Tereb.; Cham.

—— (drooling) — Trifolium.

Diabetes — Ars. brom.; Coca; Codein; Helleb.; Sizyg.;

a “\ Phiorid.; Uran. nit.; Phosph.; Aur.

Diaphragmitis - - Cactus; Nux.

Diatrhea —Camph; Verat.; Ipec.; China; Puls.;
Phos, ac.; Merc.; Manzanita; Natrum sulph.;
Sul.

—— ¢thronic) — Liatris; Chaparo; Coto; Natr. sulph.
THERAPEUTIC INDEX 1087

—— (teething) — Arundo; Cham.; Cal. phos.
Diphtheria — Iach.; Merc. cyan.; Mere, bij.; Phyt.;
Carb, ac.; Apis; Vinca; Nit. ac.; Echinacea.

—-- (nasal)-—- Am, caust.; Kal, bich.

Diplopia — Bell.; Gels.; Oleand.; Hyos.

Dissecting Wounds — Crotal.; Ars.; Echinac.

Dropsy — Apis; <pecy. can., Cahinca; Samb. can.;
Oayd.; Helleb.; Dig.; Arsenic.

Dupuytren’s Contraction — Gels.; Thios.

Dysentery -——Asclep. t.; Aloe; STpec.: Merc. cor.;
Tromb.; Colocy.; Colchic.; Ars.; Canth.

Dysmenorrheea — Apiol.; Puls.; Caulop.; Viburn.;
Mag. ph.

- —(membranous) — Calc. ac.; Borax.

Dyspepsia—Nuxr; Hyd.; Graph.; Petrol.; Anacard.;
Puis.; Lycop.; Homar.

Dysphagia —PBell.; Lach.; Merc.; Cajap.; Curar.;
Epilol.

Dyspnea— Apis; Ars.; Ipec.; Quebrach.; Spong.

Dysuria— Tritic.; Fabian.; Canth.; Apis: Sarsap.;
Camphor.; Bellad.

Ear-ache — Bell.; Cham.; Mullein Oil.

Ecchymosis — ‘Lthus.; Arn; Rhus; Sulph. ac.

Eczema — Arbut.; Clem.; Dulc.; Rhus; Sulph.; Ars;
Bovist.; Nat. ars.; Anac.; Oleand.; Petrol.;
Psorin,; Alnus. :

Elephantiasis — Elzis; Ars.; Hydrocot.; Lyc.

Emphysema — Am. carb.; Ant. ars.; Lobel.

Empyemia — Arnica.

Enteritis (acute) — Cinch.; Croton.; Podop., -

—— (chronic) — Ars.; Sulph.; Arg. nit.

Enuresis — Benz. ac.; Caust.; Sulph.; Rhus ar.;
Equiset.; Lupul.; Uran.; Physalis.

Epididymitis — Sabal; Puls.
1088 THERAPEUTIC INDEX

Epilepsy — Absinth.; Artem.; Sol. carol.; Fer. cyan.;

Cupr.; Hyd. ac.; Sil.; Calc. ars.

Epistaxis — Ambros.; Nat. nit.; Arn.; Ipec.; Bry.;

Hama.; Fer. phos.; Nit. ac.; Phosph.
Epithelioma — Jequir.; Ars.; Thuj.
Erotomania — Origan.; Phos.; Pic. ac.; Stram.; Plat.

Erysipelas — Ananth.; Bell.; Apis; Canth.; Graph.;

Rhus; Verat. vir.
Erythema — Bell.; Mezer.
—— nodosum — Apis; Rhus.
Eustachian Deafness — Kal, sulph.; Rosa; Hydr.
Exophthalmic Goitre — Lycopus; Pilocarp.
Exostosis — Hekla; Calc. fluor.
Exudative Pleurisy — Abrotan.

Fever — Acon.; Agrostis; Spiranthes; Gels.; Bapt.;

Verat. vir.
Fibroids — Calc. iod.
Fissures — Ledum; Graph.; Petrol.
Fistula — Fluor. ac.; Nit. ac.; Sil.

Flatulence— Carb.; .4saf.; Nux mos.; Mosch.; Lycop.;

China; Carbol. ac.; Cajup.
Framboesia — Jatropha; Merc. nit.
Freckles — Badiaga; Sepia.
Gallactorrhea — Salvia: Calc.
Gall-stones — China; Calc.; Berber.; Chionanth.
Ganglion — Ruta; Benz. ac.
Gangrene — Euphorb.; Lach.; Secale; Carbo.

Gastralgia — Bism. ; Carb.; Coccul.; Nux; Cup. ars.;

Petrol.; Phosph.
—— (recurring) — Graph.

’

,

’

Gastric Ulcer — Geran.; Arg. nit.; Ars.; Atrop.; Kal.

bich., Uran. nitr.
Gastritis — Ars.; Nux; Oxal. ac.; Phos.; Hydr.
Gastro-enteritis — Arg. n., Ars.
Glanders — Hippoz; Merc.
THERAPEUTIC INDEX 1089

Glands, Swollen — Aconitum lycot.; Alnus;  Bell.;
Merc. iod.; Kal. iod.; Phyt.; Aithiops.

Gleet — Abies can.; Canth.; Puls.; Thuj.; Sep.; Kal.
sulph.; Santal.; Hepar.

Glossitis — Lach.; Mur. ac.; Apis.

Goitre— Fucus; Baryt. iod.; Hydr.; Lapis; Brom.;
lod.; Spong.; Iris.

Gonorrheea — Ol. sant.; Gels.; Can. s.; Merc.; Tussil.;
Petrosel.; Hydrast.

Gout — Am. benz.; Uric ac.; Formica; Colch.; Led.;
Lithium; Fraxinus; Rosmarin,

—— (retrocedent) — Cajup.

Gravel — Hydrang.; Solid.; Canth.; Berb.

Growing Pains — Guaiac.; Phos. ac.

Gum-boil -- Merc.; Hekla; Phos.

Hematemesis — Ipec., Ham.; Phos.; Millefol.

Hematuria — Canth.; Ham.; Tereb.; Nit. ac.

Hemoglobinuria — Pic. ac.; Phos.

Hemophilia — Nat. sil.; Phos.

Hemoptysis — Acal.; Ferr. phos.; Ipec.; Millef.;
Ergot; Eriger.; Geran.; Hydr. mur.; Allium sat.

Hemorrhages— \drenalin; Hydrastin; Ipec.; Chin.;
Sab.; Hama.; Millef.; Crotal.; Trill.

——(chronic sequelz) — Stront.

Hemorrhoids— Negundo; Scrophul.; Aloe; Mur. ac.;
Hama.; Fivor. ac.; Nux,; Aés.; Collins,

Hallucinations — Antipyr.; Stram.; Bell.

Halophagia— Nit. sp. d.; Ars.; Phos.

Hay-fever — Ambros.; Aral.; Cup. acet.; Napth.;
Rosa; Sabad.; Linum.

Headaches (bursting) — Usnea; Glonoin.

—— (congestive) — Acon.; Bell.; Glon.; Lach.; Melil.;
Gels.

— (sick) — Iris; Sang.; Nux.; Chionanth.
1090 THERAPEUTIC INDEX

—— (nervous) — Cimic.; Ign.; Coff.; Guar.; Cannab.;
Zinc.; Niccol.

—— (anzmic) — Chin.; Ferr. phos.

Heart Affections — Acon.; Cactus; Naja; Dig.; Cret.:
Lycop.; Spig.; Spong.; Adon.; Conval.; Phaseol.

Heart Failure — Strych. sulph., 1/60-1/30 gr.; Spartein
Sulph., 4 gr.; Agaricin, 1/10 gr.; hypodermically.

Hectic Fever — Baptis.; Ars.; Chinin. ars.

Hemicrania — O}. an.; Onos.; Sep.; Stann.; Coff.

Hemiplegia — Oleand.; Coccul.; Bothrops.

Hemopia (vertical) — Titan.

Hepatitis — Bry.; Merc.; Lach.; Natr. sulph.

Herpes Labialis — Caps.; Nat. mur.; Rhus.

——. Zoster — Carb. oxyg.; Mentha; Ran. bulb.; Rhus,

Hiccough — Ginseng; Ratanh.; Nux; Sulph. ac.

Hoarseness — Acon.; Bry.; Dros.; Carb.: Phos.

Hodgkin’s Disease — Ars. iod.; Phos.; Iod.

Homesickness — Caps.; Ignatia.

Housemaid’s Knee — Sticta; Slag.; Rhus.

Hydrocephalus — Helleb.; Iodof.; Zinc.

Hydrocele — Rhodod ; ; Graph. ; Puls,

Hydrophobia — Xanthium; Anagallis; Canth.

Hydrothorax — Lactuca; Ran. bulb.; Kali carb.; Merc.
sulph.; Fluor, ac.

Hyperchlorhydria-—— Chin. ars.; Robin.; Orexine; Arg.
nit.; Atropin; Anacard.; Iris.

Hypgnchrondriasis — Nux; Nat. mur.; Cimicif.

Hysteria — Aquileg; Castor; Mosch.; Pothos; Plat;
Sumb.; Valer.; Ignat.; Asaf.

Ichthyosis — Ars. iod.; Syphil.; Thyroid.

Impetigo — Ars.; Tart. e.; Mez.; Cicuta.

Impotence — Agnus; Calad.; Onos.; Phos. ac.; Con.;

“> Rycop.; Selen.; Yohimbin.

Indurations — Carb. an.; Plumb. iod.; Alumen.

Inflammations —— Acon.; Bell.; Ferr. ‘phos ; ; Sulph.
THERAPEUTIC INDEX 1091

Influenza — Eryng.; Bap.; Eucalp.; Lobel. cerul.; Gels,;
Rhus; Eup. perf.; Bryonia; Arsenic,

Insomnia — Coff.; Cyprip.; Daph. ind.; Ignat.; Passifl.;
Dipodium.

—— (delirium tremens) —~ Sumbul.

Intermittent Fever — Helianth.; Chin.; Ars.; Ipes.;
Nat. mur., Caps.; Tela aranea.

Iritis — Bell.; Merc.; Clemat.; Syph.; Dubois,

Jaundice — Chionanth.; Cholest.; Bry.; Chin.; Myric.;
Podop.; Mercur.; Chelid.; Kali pic.; Nat. phos, -

—— (infantile) — Lupulus; Cham.; Mercur, . :

—— (toxic) — Phosph.: Crotalus. to

Kidneys (congestive) -— Bell.; Terel.; Canth. owt

Lactation — Lac canin.

Lagophthalmus — Physos.

Laryngitis (acute) — Acon.; Hep.; Spong.; Phosqg.
Caust.; Arum. ar

Laryngo-Tracheitis — ‘aphthalin.

—~— (chronic) — Dros.; Selen.; Mang.; Argent..

Lectophobia — Cann. sat.

Leprosy — Elzis; Wydrocot.; Crot.; Pyrara.; Leu-
caemia-Benzol Hoang-nan.

Leucorrhea — Benzol.

Leucocythzmia— Ars.; Pic. ac.; Thuj.; Ceanoth.

Leucorrhza — Alum.; Calc.; Hyd.; Sulph.; Puls.;
Kreos.; Sep.; Hydr.; Eucaly.; Thuj.

—— (in little gitls)— Calc.; Cub.; Hyp.; Asperul.

Lienteria — China; Ferrum; Oleander.

Lithiasis — Asparag.; Lycop.; Sep.

Liver, acute yellow atrophy — Phosph.

— Cancer — Cholest.; Hydr.

— Cirrhosis — Ars. iod.; Phos.

—- Fatty — Phosph.; Vanad,

Liver (congestion) — Berb.; Bry.; Card.; Chel.; Lept.;
Merc.; Mag. mur.; Pod.; Sulph.
1092 THERAPEUTIC INDEX

Liver-spots — Nat. hyposulph.; Sepia.

Locomotor Ataxia— Zinc. phos.; Plumb.; Arg. nit.;
Oxal. ac.; Chromium sulph.

Lumbago Guaiac.; Hymos.; Rhus; Tart. em.; Macrot.;
Phytol.; Kali oxal.

Lungs, Congestion — Acon.; Verat. vir.; Fer. phos.

—— Oedema — Am. carb.; Tart. em.; Ars.

Lupus — Am. ars.; Ars.; Hydrocot.; Thuja.

Malaria — Alstonia; Am. pic.; Cornus.

Malnutrition — Alfalfa; Calc. phos.

Mania — Bell.; Hyos.; Stram.; Lach.

Marasmus — Abrotan.; Iod.; Nat. mur.:; Ars. iod.

Mastitis — Bell.; Phytol.; Con.

Mastoid— Caps.; Onos.; Hyd.

Measles — Gels.; Puls.; Fer. phos.; Kal. mur.

Megrim— Menisp.; Coff.; Sep.; Stan.

Memory, weak — Anacard.; Baryta carb. ,
Meniere’s Disease — Carb. sulph.; Chenop.; Nat. sal.;
Sal. ac.

Meningitis (tubercular) —- Bacil.; Cup. cyan.; Iodof.

Meénorrhagia — Chin.; Sab.; Croc. ; Calc. ; Plat.

Menstruation (painful) — Bell. Viburn. op.; Mag. phos.

—— (delayed) — Puls.; Calc. phos.; Cauloph.; Nat.

mur.

—— (profuse) — Cham.; Ipec.; Trill.; Bellad.; Sabina.

-—— (cessation) — Laches.; Puls.; Graph.; Sanguin.

Metritis, Chronic — Aur. mur. nat.; Mel. c. s.; Mere.

Milk, — Bufo; Ars.; Puls.; Rhus; Hama.

Misc#ftiage, threatened — Sabina; Viburn. op.

— repeated — SypWilin, ; Bacill.

Morning Sickness — miygdal.; Nux: Ipec.; Cucurb.;
" Coccul.; Apomorph.; Aletris.

Morphine Habit — Avena.

Mi wan’s Disease Aur. mur.; Thuya.
4 ain Sickness — Coca.

#
i
THERAPEUTIC INDEX 1093

Mumps — Bell.; Merc.; Pilocarp.; Rhus.

Muscz Volitantes — Caustic.; Cypriped.; China.

Mushroom Poisoning — Absinth.

Myalgia — Acon.; Bry.; Macrot.; Rhus.

Myelitis —Ars.; Plumb.; Oxal. ac.; Secale; Dule.

Myocarditis — Dig.: Ars. iod.; Aur. mur.

Myositis — Arn.; Mez.; Rhus.

Myxcedema — Thyroid.

Nevus — Fluor. ac.; Thuja.

Nephritis — Meth. blue; Koch’s lymph; Berb.; Kali
chlor.; Canth.; Merc. cor.; Phos.; Tereb.; Apis;
Eucalyp.

Neuralgia — Am. val.; Acon.; Bell.; Spig.; Kalm.;
Ars.; Colocy.; Phos.; Zine. val. -

-—— (lumbo-abdominal) — Aran.

—— (periodic) — Nic. sulph.; Ars.; Cedr.

—— (spermatic cord) — Ol. an.; Oxal. ac.; Clemat. ,

Neurasthenia — Anac; Zinc. pic.; Stry. phos.; Physos-
tig.

—— (gastric) — Gentiana: Anacard.

Neuritis — Stann.; Plumb.; Hyper.; Thallium; Ars.

Nictalopia — Bell.; Helleb.

Night-sweats — Acet. ac.; Nat. tell.; Popul.; Agaricus;
Picrot.; Salvia; Pilocarp.

Nipples, Ulcerated — Cast. eq.; Eup. ar.; Ratanh.

Nodosities of Jojnts— Am. phos.

Nymphomania— Robin. ; Canth.; Hyos.; Phos.; Murex.

Obesity — Am. brom.; Fucus; Calc.; Phyt.; Thyroid.

Oedema — Apis; Ars.; Dig.

—— (of lungs) — Tart. emet.

—— (pedum) — Prunus.

Ocesophagus — Cajup.; Condur.; Bapt.

Onychia — Silica; Psorin.

Orchitis — Puls.: Bell.; Rhodod.; Spong.; Aur.

Osteitis — Conchiolin.
1094 THERAPEUTIC INDEX

Otitis Media (chronic) — Chenopod.; Cap.; __Bell.;
Merc.; Puls.; Calc.

Otorrhceea — Kino; Merc.; Calc.; Puls.; Sulph.; Hyd.;
Tellur.

Ovaralgia — Zinc. val.; Apis; Lach.

Ovarian Cyst— Oophor.; K. brom.; Apis.

Ovaritis — Apis; Laches.; Platina; Colocyn.; Sepia;
Xantox,

Oxaluria — Senna; Nit. mur. ac.; Oxal. ac.

Oxyhzmoglobinzmia — Benzin.

Ozena — Alum.; Hippoz.; Aur.; Nit. ac.; Merc.;
Hydr.; Cadmium; Sulph.; Syphil.

Pancreatic Troubles — /ris.; Kali iod.

Panaritium — Am. carb.; Fluor. ac.; Sil.; Alumin.

Paralysis Agitans — Aur. sul.; Hyos.; Hydrob.; Merc.

Paralysis, acute ascending — Gels.

— Facial — Caust.; Graph.

— Hysterical — Ignat.; Coccul.

Paralysis — (post-diphtheritic) —Gels.; Coccul.; Lach. ;
Aur. mur.

Paraplegia — Many. ox.; Kal. tart.; Lathyr.; Thall.;
Hyper.; Anhalon.

Paresis — .2.sc. glab.; Badiag.

—— (senile) — Aur. iod.: Phos,

-—— (pneumo-gastric) — Grind.

-——— (spinal) —- Irid.

—— (respiratory) — Lobel. purp.

-— (typewriters’) —-Stann.

Pemphigus — Caltha; Mancin.; Ran. scel.; Rhus.

Pericarditis — Ant.; Ars.; Bry ; Colch.: Spig.; Dig.

Periostitis—-Asaf.: Aur.; K. bich.; Merc.; Phos.;
Mez.; Sil.; Apis.

Peritonitis— Apis; Bell,; Bry.; Colocy.; Merc, cor,;
Sinapis; Sang. nit.
1094 THERAPEUTIC INDEX

Otitis Media (chronic) — Chenopod.; Cap.; __Bell.;
Merc.; Puls.; Calc.

Otorrhceea — Kino; Merc.; Calc.; Puls.; Sulph.; Hyd.;
Tellur.

Ovaralgia — Zinc. val.; Apis; Lach.

Ovarian Cyst— Oophor.; K. brom.; Apis.

Ovaritis — Apis; Laches.; Platina; Colocyn.; Sepia;
Xantox,

Oxaluria — Senna; Nit. mur. ac.; Oxal. ac.

Oxyhzmoglobinzmia — Benzin.

Ozena — Alum.; Hippoz.; Aur.; Nit. ac.; Merc.;
Hydr.; Cadmium; Sulph.; Syphil.

Pancreatic Troubles — /ris.; Kali iod.

Panaritium — Am. carb.; Fluor. ac.; Sil.; Alumin.

Paralysis Agitans — Aur. sul.; Hyos.; Hydrob.; Merc.

Paralysis, acute ascending — Gels.

— Facial — Caust.; Graph.

— Hysterical — Ignat.; Coccul.

Paralysis — (post-diphtheritic) —Gels.; Coccul.; Lach. ;
Aur. mur.

Paraplegia — Many. ox.; Kal. tart.; Lathyr.; Thall.;
Hyper.; Anhalon.

Paresis — .2.sc. glab.; Badiag.

—— (senile) — Aur. iod.: Phos,

-—— (pneumo-gastric) — Grind.

-——— (spinal) —- Irid.

—— (respiratory) — Lobel. purp.

-— (typewriters’) —-Stann.

Pemphigus — Caltha; Mancin.; Ran. scel.; Rhus.

Pericarditis — Ant.; Ars.; Bry ; Colch.: Spig.; Dig.

Periostitis—-Asaf.: Aur.; K. bich.; Merc.; Phos.;
Mez.; Sil.; Apis.

Peritonitis— Apis; Bell,; Bry.; Colocy.; Merc, cor,;
Sinapis; Sang. nit.
THERAPEUTIC INDEX 1095

Pharyngitis, follicular — sc. hip.; Hydr.; Sang.;
Wyethia.

— (sicca) — Dubois.

Phimosis — Merc.; Guaiac.

Phlebitis — Hamain.; Puls.

Phthisis — Acalyph.; Gall. ac.; Nat. cacod.; Polyg.
avic.; Silphium; Calc. ars.; Kreos.

——- (laryngeal) — Dros.; Stan.; Selen.; Nat. selen.

Plague — Ignatia; Operculina.

Pleurisy —- Acon.; Bry.; Squill.; Asclep.; Kal. c.

~— (effusion stage) — Apis; Canth.; Ars.; Sulph.

Pleurodynia — Bry.; Cimic.; Ran. bulb

Plica Polonica — Vinca; Lycop.

Pneumonia — Bry.; Phos.; Sang.; Iod.; Chelid.; Lye;
Pneumo-<occin.

Poison-oak — Anac.;  Xerophyl.; Grind.; Cyprip.;
Rhus; Croton.; Graph.; Erecht.

Poliomyelitis — Lathyrus; Bungaris; Kali phos.

Polychrome Spectra ~— Anhalon.

Polypi— Phos.; Calc.; Sang.; Thuj.

—— (nasal) — Lemna; Culc.; Teuc.

Polyuria — Arg.; Phos. ac.; Murex; Squill.; Uran.;
Rhus aromat.

Portal congestion — 7scul glabra.

Priapism — Pic. ac.; Canth.

Proctitis — Ant. crud.; Collins.; Aloe; Podop.

Prosopalgia — Cactus; Verbas.; Kalmia; Puls.

Prostatic Hypertrophy — Fer. pic.; Thuja.

Prostatitis — Merc. dulc.; Sabal; Pic. ac; Thuj.;
Tritic.; Staph.
Pruritus — Antipyr.; Carbol. ac.; Dolich.; Fagep. ;

Sulph.; Rhus; Pulex.; Radium.
Psoriasis —Kal ars.; K. brom.; Thyroid.; Ars.;
Graph.; Borax; Sulph.; Emetin % gr.
Pterygium — Zinv.; Ratanh,; Sulph.
1096 THERAPEUTIC INDEX

Ptomaine Poisoning — Ars.; Pyrog.; Kreos.

Ptyalism — Trifol.; Iod.; Merc.; Iris.

Pulmonary Stenosis — Aspidosperma.

Purpura Hzmorrhagica — Crotal.; Phos.; Ham.; Ars.;
Ledum.; Naja.

Pyzmia — Ars. iod.; Nat. sulph. carb.; Chinin.; Lach.;
MethyJ.; Apium vir.; Pyrogen.

Pyelitis— Merc. cor.; Hep.; Tereb.; Cup. ars.; Epigea ;
Juniperus; Uva ursi.

Pyorrhcea — Emetin.; Staphis.; Plantago.; Calc. renalis.

Pyrosis — Gallic ac.; Bismuth.; Caps.

Rachitis — Calc.; Iris.; Phos.; Sil.; Bacil,

Ranula —Thuja; Calc,; Fluor. ac.; Lyssin.

Raynaud’s Disease — Ars.; Secale; Cactus tincture.

Rectal Pockets — Polygon.

Respiration (Cheyne-Stokes) — Antipyr.

Rheumatism — Colch.; Prepyl.; Acon.; Bry.; Dulc.;
Mere.; Rhus, Cimic.

—— (chronic) — Stellar.; O}. jecor.; Sulph.; Viscum. ;
Guaiac.

——- (gonorrheeal) — Irisin; Sarsap.; Thuja.; Medorrh.

Rhinitis (atrophic) — Lemna.

Riggs’ Disease — Calc. renal.

Ringworm — Sepia; Tellur.; Ars.; Bacillin.

Rupia — Kal. iod.; AZthiops ; Syphil.

Scarlatina — Bell.; Rhus; Stram.

—— (malignant)—-Am. carb.; Mur, ac.;  Lach.;
Ailanth.; Crotal.; Baptis.; Nit. ac.

Sciatica “Cotyled.; Viscum; Colocy.; Rhus; Gnaph.

Scleros#, multiple — Aur. mur.

SclerG@e' Pegeneration JBaryt, m.; Plumb.; Aur.

’ r. v

Scrofula— Ethiops: Fer. iod.; Cistus; Merc.; Cale.;
Sulph.; Therid.

Scurvy — Acet. ac.; Agave; Phos.; Merc.
THERAPEUTIC INDEX 1097

Seasickness — Apomorph.; Petrol.; Coccul.; Nux;
Tabac,

Seborrhcea — Ars.; Graph.; Vinca.; Nat. mur.

Senile Decay — Oophor.; Baryta.

Sepsis— Crotal.; Bapt.; Echin.; Ars.; Lach.; Arnica,

Sleeping Sickness — Nux mosch.; Opium; Gelsem,

Sleeplessness —- Tela aran.; Coff.; lgn.; Cimicif.; Gels.;
Opium (high) ; Daphne; Hyos, hydrob,

Snake-poison Antidotes -- Golond.; Cedt.; Gymen.;
Sisyr.; Guaco; Salag.

Somnambulism —— Kali phos.: Kali brom.

Spermatorrhcea — Salix; Chin.; Phos, ac.: Staphis.

Spleen Affections — Ceanoth.; Quercus; Helianth.; Nat,
m.; Polymnia.

Sterility — Agnus; Nat. m.; Borax.

Stomach Dilatation — Hyd. mur.

Stomatitis — Borax; Arg. nit.; Kal. mur.; Nit. ac.

Subinvolution Fraxin.; Aur mur. nat.; Epipheg.

Sycosis — Asterias; Thuja; Natr. sulph.; Aur. mur.

Synovitis -- Apis; Bry.; Calc. fluor.

Syphilides — Ars. s. fl.; K. hyd.; Nit. ae.

Syphilis — Calotropis; Coryd.; Plat. mur.; Merc.; K,
hyd.; Aurum.

—— (latent) — Ars. met.; Syphil.

—- (nodes) — Coryd.; Stilling.; K. hyd.

Tachycardia — -{bies nig.; Agnus,

Tape-worm — Filix; Cina; Ioduretted Pot. iod.

Tetanus — August.; Strych.; Upas; Passif.; Physos,

Tinnitus — Antipyr.: C. in.; Carb. sulph.; Sal. ac.

Tobacco-craving — Daph. ind.

Tonsillitis — Am. mur., Guaiac.; Baryta. ac.; Bell.;
Merc.; Phyt.

Toothache -— Plantago; Mag. carb.; Bell.; Chamom.

Torticollis — Lachnant.

Traumatism — Arnica; Bellis.
1098 THERAPEUTIC INDEX

Trismus — Linum.

Tuberculous Peritonitis © — Allium sat.; Ars. iod.;
Lachnant.; Phell.; Urea; Vanad.; Myos.; Galeop-
sis,

Tuberculosis Peritonitis — 4 brotan,

Tumors — Calc. fluor.; Baryt. mur.; Con.; Thuj.; Merc.
iod.; Hydr.; Sil.; Plumb. iod.

Tympanites — Erig.; Tarax.; Tereb.; Lycop.; Asaf.

Typhoid — Bapt.; Mur, ac.; Ars.; Phos. ac.

—— (diarrhcea) — Epiloh.

Typhus — Rhus; Ars.; Bapt.

Ulcers — Nit. ac.; Sil.; Ars.; Comocl.; Kal. hyd.;
Lach.; Paon.; Calend.

Urzmia — Am. carb.; Cup. ars.; Aforph.; Carbol. ac.

Urethral Caruncle — Cann. sat.; Eucalyp.

Urethritis — Acon.; Apis; Canth.

—— (in childien) — Doryph.

Uric Acid Diathesis — ITedeom.; Ocim.

Urticaria — Ant. c.; Antipyr.; Apis; Astac.; Bombyx;
Copaiv.; Fragar.; Nat, mur.

Uterine Displacement — Abies can.; Eupion; Heliot.;
Sep.; Puls.; Fraxin.; Fer. iod.

—— (induration) — Aur. mur.; Kal.

Vaccinosis — Thuja; Silica; Vaccin.

Vaginismus — Cactus; Plumb. ; Bellad.

Varitbse Veins — Calc. fuor.; Hamam.; Puls.

Variola — Ant. tart.; aracen.

—— (Hzmorrhagic) — Crotal.; Phos.; Ars.

Vertigo — Gels.; Granat.; Phos.; Coccul.; Con.

Vomiting — Ipec.; Ars.; Kreos.; Coccul.

Wens — Ant. c.: Caust.; Nit, ac.; Thuj.; Sal.

Warts — Thuja: Benz. acid.; Bacillin.
THERAPEUTIC INDEX 1099

Whooping-cough — Castan.; Dros.; Cup.; Mag. phos.;
Pertussin.

Worms — Calc.; Cina; Santon.; Spigel.; Teuc.;
Naphth.; Cup. ox. nig. 1x.

Wrist Rheumatism — Actea spic.; Viol. od.

Writer’s Cramp — Arg. m.; Sulph. ac.

Yellow Fever — Cadmium; Ars.; Crotal.
LIST OF REMEDIES
COMMON NAMES
LIST OF REMEDIES
COMMON NAMES

PAGE
Acoin spirit dist ..... Olt
Adder .. we... cee eae . 778
Alispice oe. ...0- bee ceeae 621
Alum of Chiome ......65 437
Amber ..... been cae e wees fle
Ambergris oo. eee cece eee 42
American aspen .......6- 608
American arum ......... 163
American coffce tree ..... 366
-\merican holly ......... - 397
aAmMoti Le ee eee eee 379
Animal charcoal - 194
Anima! oi] 2... .......-- 552
AMiSE coe ce eee 396
Anthracite ...... 0 eee eee o3
Ants 6. cece erences 340
Aibor vitae ....-.ssee0. 741
Nigila co... eee eee senee 39
ALLOW POISON eee cree ee 290
Ash (mountain) wee O12
Ash (white) .......28- «+ 343
“Ash wathya ..... ..6- ». 336
Balm of Gilead .....--- 07
Tallwood 1.2.2.2... ee eee 366
Balsam apple ........-.- 508
Balsam Copaiva ......... 272
Jalsam Peru .......- 118
Baneberry ....... eee neeee 13
Barberry .......--5 wees 137
Basket grass flower vieees 782
Bayberry °........eeeceeee 516
Bean .....eeeee weveee 578
Beatberry ....eeeeesee ees 763
Bear grass ....-.-ss.eee . 786
Beaver ..... seeeeeeeeees 208
Bedbug ..-.--eeseeee 235
Bee weeeecceceece ee
Beechdrop ..
Beechwood
Benzo] ......--- see 134
Betelnut .. 21. eeeeeee 81

PAGE

Belony ..eceee eens 140
Bard cherry .e..eeee 612
Risulphide carbon .. . 202
litter, almond ..... 54
Bitter bioom ... seeae 572
Pitter cucumber .. 2... 264
ntter orange .. ow... eee ee 247
Batter sweet .......6. wee. 304
Black lead. .... wee eee 358
Black snake 100t . ...... 236
Black spruce... 6. 0 6. 8
Black sulphus mercury.... 20
Hlack thorn .....eee eee ee oll
Blazing star ..........-- 374
Blovdroot .. cee eee eee 656
Blue bell .......0.. ones 28
Blue cohosh ..........-. 209
Blue eyed grass ......... 357
Blue flag ... ...... ee eee 408
Blue gum tree .......... 315
Blue vervain .........- - 772
Boro-Glyceride .......... 143
Box elder ..........0 000. 20
Brazilian Alfavaca ...... 549
Biazihan burdock ....... 189
Broom ...... cee cece eens 691
Buckbean ......e..00505 + 491
Buckthorn .........-..4+ 633
Buckwheat ........ teens 327
Buchu .......eeeeeeeeeee 121
Bug agaric .......... eens 23
Bugle weed ............ 473
Burdock .......ceeeeeees 452
Burning bush ........... 318
Burr flower ............. 326
Bush master ............. 444
Butter ef antimony ...... 66
Butterbur ............... 758
Buttercup ...........0008 687
Button bush .............°243

Button snake root.....°%

x18
1104

. PACE
Calabar bean ...... . 588
Calerum sulphide ......-- 375
Califormia clover .. ..... 30
Cahformia coffee tree.. .. 632
California laurel ........ 561
California poppy .....-- 560
Calomel ....... 0.000 eee .. 500
Candy tuft .......-..08- . 391
Carbamide ....... seeeee 760

Carbonous oxide .......+. 202
Carburetted hydrogen .... 202

Caroha ......... 02. eee 409
Cascara .......... weeeee 633
Cashew nut ....... seveee 57
Caterpillar ..... so seeeeee 108
Cayenne pepper .......+. 192
Catnip ..... 2. eee eee . 675
Cat's milk ........0.0... . 444
Cat tail flag . ....... ~.. 407
Cat thyme ........00656- 735
Celandine ....... seeeeeee QO
Celery co.cc cee eee eee 74
Centanry ....... cece eee 185
Century plant .... 0 ....-. 2
Centipede ..........6008- 448
Cevadilla .........0..0 8. 647
Chaste tree. ...... veces 27
Chestnut leaves ........-. 208
Cherry laurel ........... 454
Chickpea

Chickweed ...... seas
Chili bark 2.00 0..0..... » 625
China clay .... see. eee - 439
Chinese sumach ....... .. 28
Chloral hydrate ......... 228
Chlorine ......... wees ee 230
Chrysophanic acid ...... 233
Cloves ...... 66. seeseeee HD
Clover cece cece cece ee oe 488
Chub moss .....--- Secees 468
Cobya nese tenes weeeee SIS

LIST OF REMEDIES—COMMON NAMES

PAGE
Cockroach . ........ -ee 142
Coffee... Lecce eee eee 258
Coffee tree cs. cece e cece 366
Cod... Lecce cece eee . 554
Cole root... eee eee eee 461
Colorado potato bug ..... 301
Columbine wo... eee eee ee 77
Condor ....c cece eee eee 267
Copper... cece cece eee 287
Copper head ....... sees 218
Cornflower .......... 005 307
Coral snake ............ 308
Comfrey ... 1... 0 eee eee 723
Corkwoud elm .... .. .. 305
Cooties ..... ce cece eee . 615
Corn cockle .. 2.2... 0... 453
Corn silk ........ eee 704
Corn smutt ........006- 762
Corrosive subltmate .. ... 502
Cotton plant ....... ae... 357
Couch grass ............ 752
Cowhage 2.0... .. eee eee 300
Cowship cose cece cere eens 609
Crancherry .......005 08 778
Cranesbill ........- . » 351
Crawfish ......... nee 108
Crawley root ............ 275
Cream... bees wees 444
Cress ee cece eee ee eee 458
Crown glass ......-... wee 685
Cutweed .......6 200. wee 356
Curds ... 444
Cystogen . 340
Cuttlefish . - 676
Culver’s root 458

Daffodil .... ......-0.. 520
Daisy ..ceceeceeeeeee oe 132
Damiana ....... peeeeeee 158
Dandelion ..... ......., 730

{ Darnel 1... we. ece ee eee . 466

Dipple’s oi} ..........26. 552
Dita bark .............8+ 37
Dogbane ........... ween OS
1104

. PACE
Calabar bean ...... . 588
Calerum sulphide ......-- 375
Califormia clover .. ..... 30
Cahformia coffee tree.. .. 632
California laurel ........ 561
California poppy .....-- 560
Calomel ....... 0.000 eee .. 500
Candy tuft .......-..08- . 391
Carbamide ....... seeeee 760

Carbonous oxide .......+. 202
Carburetted hydrogen .... 202

Caroha ......... 02. eee 409
Cascara .......... weeeee 633
Cashew nut ....... seveee 57
Caterpillar ..... so seeeeee 108
Cayenne pepper .......+. 192
Catnip ..... 2. eee eee . 675
Cat's milk ........0.0... . 444
Cat tail flag . ....... ~.. 407
Cat thyme ........00656- 735
Celandine ....... seeeeeee QO
Celery co.cc cee eee eee 74
Centanry ....... cece eee 185
Century plant .... 0 ....-. 2
Centipede ..........6008- 448
Cevadilla .........0..0 8. 647
Chaste tree. ...... veces 27
Chestnut leaves ........-. 208
Cherry laurel ........... 454
Chickpea

Chickweed ...... seas
Chili bark 2.00 0..0..... » 625
China clay .... see. eee - 439
Chinese sumach ....... .. 28
Chloral hydrate ......... 228
Chlorine ......... wees ee 230
Chrysophanic acid ...... 233
Cloves ...... 66. seeseeee HD
Clover cece cece cece ee oe 488
Chub moss .....--- Secees 468
Cobya nese tenes weeeee SIS

LIST OF REMEDIES—COMMON NAMES

PAGE
Cockroach . ........ -ee 142
Coffee... Lecce eee eee 258
Coffee tree cs. cece e cece 366
Cod... Lecce cece eee . 554
Cole root... eee eee eee 461
Colorado potato bug ..... 301
Columbine wo... eee eee ee 77
Condor ....c cece eee eee 267
Copper... cece cece eee 287
Copper head ....... sees 218
Cornflower .......... 005 307
Coral snake ............ 308
Comfrey ... 1... 0 eee eee 723
Corkwoud elm .... .. .. 305
Cooties ..... ce cece eee . 615
Corn cockle .. 2.2... 0... 453
Corn silk ........ eee 704
Corn smutt ........006- 762
Corrosive subltmate .. ... 502
Cotton plant ....... ae... 357
Couch grass ............ 752
Cowhage 2.0... .. eee eee 300
Cowship cose cece cere eens 609
Crancherry .......005 08 778
Cranesbill ........- . » 351
Crawfish ......... nee 108
Crawley root ............ 275
Cream... bees wees 444
Cress ee cece eee ee eee 458
Crown glass ......-... wee 685
Cutweed .......6 200. wee 356
Curds ... 444
Cystogen . 340
Cuttlefish . - 676
Culver’s root 458

Daffodil .... ......-0.. 520
Daisy ..ceceeceeeeeee oe 132
Damiana ....... peeeeeee 158
Dandelion ..... ......., 730

{ Darnel 1... we. ece ee eee . 466

Dipple’s oi} ..........26. 552
Dita bark .............8+ 37
Dogbane ........... ween OS
LIST OF REMEDIES—COMMON NAMES

PAGE
Dog mercury ..........-+ 493
Dog's milk ..... cece eens 442
Dogwood ............4.. 275
Dogwood (white) ....... 782
Dover’s powder ...... «+. 560
Dwarf bean ........ ... 578
Duckweed ............- . 457
Dusty miller ............ 243
Dyer’s weed .... ....... 435
Egg shcils 2... «2.0... .. 564
Egg vaccine .. . ...... 564
Eel serum .......000..05 679
Elder ............-0000- 655
Enlexing .............-- 725
Epsom salt ........ ..-- 480
Ergot ...-..eceeeee cee 667
Eyebright |.............. 325
false Cromwell ......... 55S
Farcine %.........- seve 380
Fever 100t ......2.000- «. 752
Figwort ......-. .eeeeeee 665
Fire weed .....-..2.0005 313
Flax cc... cee cee eee 462
Flea occ cece ee eee eee 616
Pleabane .....2. ceeeeee JIS
Flint .... ce eee eee ees . . 681
Fly acorns ......-.- secee 783
Fly woodbine ...... veeee 467
Fluxweed ......-.ee eee 285
Forget-me-not ......+--- 516
Fool’s parsley .....-..-- 20
Formaldehyde .... «+» 339
Fowler’s golution ........ 415
Foxglove .....seeeeeeees 294
Fringetree .........58.. . 227
Farlic cee cece ween eee ee 33
Fentian ...ceee eee eee oe SSL
Serman chamomile ...... 217
Sila monster ....... wees 372
Wauber’s salt ......... ». 532
Glycerin ....-...506- wee. 3558
TWoatbush 22. e ce eee eee 219

1105

PAGE
Goat’s rue 2. 16... wees 342
Gold see e ee eeee seeeee 110
Goldenrod ........ seeeee 690
Golden seal ..........00. 381
Gonorrhceal virus ...... «. 485
Goose grass ..........5 .. 344
Gopher plant ..... seeees 322
Grape fruit ..........04. 247
Green dragon ..... teen 100
Grease voce c eee eee e eee 482
Gunimi gutti .........665 345
Gunpowder ......... sees 432
Hagenia .......... - 439
ard hack . .......... +. 694
Hashish ........ seeeeeee 185
Ilawthorn ..... vente eee 277
Tledge hyssop ........4.- 362
Hemlock ............... 267

Hfemlock spruce ......... 1

Hellebore 2... ccs eeee eee 769
Wemp ........... ees eee 18B
Hemp weed ........... . 364
Henbane .........-.-. .» 387
Herring brine ...-....... 611
Hoarehound ............. 384
Holly ...... -.397
Hogweed ..........6.5-5 149
Honey with salt ......... 488
Honeysuckle ............ 467
Hops ......-. eee eee seve 467
Horse chestnut .......... 17
HTorse radish ........... 257
Mforse thumbnail ...... . 208
Yorse foot ............. 461
Household herb,......... 60
Mouse leek ..... 2. seeee 670
Iceland moss ..... sevens 704
Indian cockle ...... seve. 253
Indian hemp ............ 185
Indian liquorice ......... 4i1
Indian nettle ...... ..... 0 5
Indian tobacco .......... 464
1106

PAGE

Tron ......e- soso a 330
Tronwood ........-. « 563
Jack-in-pulpit ...... veeee 100
Jambo] ........... seen 725
Japanese belladonna ..... 389
Jellyfish ...... .. seeeeee 488
Je1usalem oak ...... seers 222
Juniper .... cece eee eee 414
Kelp ....cceeeeceeeeeeee 344
King crab ........ ee eee 461
Knot grass ...........- - 607
Kola ....... cece ee eee 702
Kombe ..........0 0005 +» 709
Krait oo... eee eee wees 519
Labaraque’s solution ..... 524
Lady bug ........... wees 252
Lady slipper ............ 293
Lady’s tresses ......... » 694
Laudanum ..........0005 560
Tava oe. eee e eee eens .. 370
Lead... . see eee eee eee oUz
Leatherwood ........ vee. 506
Teech ...... (ete e ences .. 586
leopard’s bane .......... 87
Lesser periwinkle ...... . 775
Lettuce oe. cece eee eee «. 450
Linden .....2..65 seeeeee 247
eiverwort ...-.... eee eee 379
aly of Valley .......... 271
ONZATA 6 eee eee eee » + 370
vizard (green) .....0..05 373
lazard tail ........ eee eee 665
wadstone ... .......-2. 330
sobster wc cece eee eee ee 380
Loco weed (phiple). . . 110

Toco weed (white) ...... 78
Locust ........ 2.6.00. 642

Logwood .......- vena. 367
Louse .... ... se eeeee . . 615
Lung wort ...... ene eee 703
‘Madar bark ..... weceeee 182

Medder ........ .0.2.5. 655

LIST OF REMEDIES--COMMON NAMES

PAGE
Magenta. ....--- deeeee 344
Magondr’s solution ...... 560
Male fern so... eee eee wee 337
Mandrake ......ee eee vee 604
Manganese (colloidal) .. 485
Manganee] apple ......+- 482
Mango tree ......0-5 wees 485
Manzanita ... severe 763
Margosa ......... seeeee « 115
Marking nut ........ woes 5S
Matigold ...... eee eee «. 180
Marine plasma .......... 528
Marsh buttercup ..... ++» 629
Marsh tea .....

May apple
Mescal button
Meadow  saffion

Mercuric sulphide ....... 244
Mirbaue ..... + weeceees 135
Mistletoe ... 2... eee 778
Moccasin snahe ....ee0e. 147
Monhshood ........eeeeee 8
Moonseced .. ...eeeeeeee 490
Morming gloiy . .....-. 140
Mother-of-pear] ..... -» 177
Mother wort ...... veeeee 504
Mountain grape ......... 137
Mountain laurel seveee 437
Mug wort ......6-

Mullein .........6-5

Mullet fish .......

Mustard ... .....0.

Musk ...4.... ...
Mushroom ...... weeds

Myrtle... . ccc cece ee eee
Nasturtium .........0.005 13/7
New Jersey tea ........ . 213
Nickel .. ...-....0005 .. 535
Nightblooming Cereus ... 157
Night shad, ........ sees 127
Nishope ......... weeeeee 557
Nitro-glycerin .......... 353
Nutmeg ........ seeeeeee 542
LIST OF REMEDIES—-COMMON NAMES

Oats ..... eee eee eee ee
Ohio Buckeye
One berry ..............
Onion ... ccc cece esse eee
Orange
Orange spider .........-
Orpiment ....,.-.eeeeeee
Ovarian extract
Oxgall

Paragoric
Parsley

Parsmp

Parsnip (meadow)
Partridge berry ....... oe
Fassion flower
Pawpaw
Pheasangs eye
Peach bark ..eseeseeeeee
Pennyroyal
Tennywort
Peony
Peppermint
Peruvian bark
Tetroleum ether
Pine tar ceccccceeceeeeee
Pine agaric
Pitcher plant
Pituitary gland
Plant lice
Plantain
Plaster df Paris
Tleurisy root .........6.
Pippsissema
Poison elder .........-+5
Poison i
Poison
Poison
Poison
Poke root .......
Pool root
Poppy

1107

PaGE
Pomegianate ........6.. 358
Pond lily ........... 00s 541
Prickly pear ..........- . 560
Prickly ash ..........005 780
Prickly poppy .......... 81
Pinmrose ......ee eee eees 610
Puka_ ............, sees 149
Pumpkin seed ........... 285
Purging nut ..........05 411
Purple fish ...........04 $12
Prussic acid ........... 385
Puffball ........ cece eee 147
Pussy willow ......eeeee 654
Queen of Meadow ...... 321
Queen root 1.6... ce eee 705
Quicksilver ....... scene 493
Quince ... ........ weeee 243
Ox-eye daisy .......eeeee 654
Radish ..cceccesessseeee 630
Ragweed ........eeeeeee 44
Rag wort) ........005 +e» 672
Rape seed vo... cece ee eee 669
Rattlesnake .........6 +. 280
Rattie bean .........0eee 214
Rattle root ...........6. 450
Rattle weed ......-65. «. 78
Red alder ............ +. 34
Red cedar ..........-66- 414
Red clover ........... -- 750
Red coral ........0.000e 274
Red gum ..........66 oe. 317
Red onion ....... coeeeee 31
Red starfish .........06. 108
Reed ........ Occ reeee - 101
Rest Harrow ........ eee 735
Rhubarb ........ eee eee 633
Rockoil 6... see eee eee . 575
Rock rose ...... seeececee 246
Roman Chamomile ...... 62
Rose oo. cece cece e eee ees 643
Rose apple ...... ...00. 317
Rose laurel ........-4- -s 330
1108

PAGE
Rosin weed ...... seeeeee 685
Rosin wood ...... eee 362
Rue Bitterwoit ....... +. 645
Rush voce e eee eee eee ee 414
Sacred bark ........+.-. 206
Saffron 2.6.6... ee eee sees 278
Sage 22... 0 cece eee eee 654
Sal Ammomia .......... 50
Saliva rabid dog .......- 386
Salt .......... 525

Saltpetic .........006. 43)
Sandal ieee seeee ee eeees 554

Savane vevesceeeees seeeee 649
Saw Palmetto ....... ve. 648
Scales vesicle ........-+ 612
Scabwort ...... cece eee ee 399
Scallop .....-.. see eeee 79
Scarlet Pimpernel ....... 58
Scotch Pie ............ 590
Scouring rush ..... VD
Sea kelp ........0. weeee 344
Sea onion ......... sees 696
Sea salt so.c.ce seer eee 528
Sea sand ........ veces 685
Selenrum (collosdal) ..... 672
Sensitive plant ..... seeee 640
Seven barks ..... seeeeee 381
Sepsin ...... see e eens » 621
Sheele’s gicen ........-. 286

Shepherd’s purse ........ 749
Skimmed milk .......065 444

Skull cap ........- wee + 666
Skunk ......... se eeeeee 492
Skunk cabbage ........ «. 609
Silkweed .....-.-eeeeeee 105
Silver ........0005 sence 82
Singhee ........-.0..005 415
Slag wo... cece eee wesee O31

Smallpox virus .... .... 766

tweed ........2. ee 606
$Oyilax, .....6...0. vee ee 664
Oral oo. cee. 508

LIST OF REMEDIES—-COMMON NAMES

PAGE
Snake head ..... seeeeees 223
Snake hzard .......2+-.. 448
Snakc moss ..........5.. 652
Snake root ......--.006. 104
Snowberry ..... seeeeees 722

Snow rose .......
Snowbread .y..eeeeeeees 291

Soapbark .........5. wees 625
Soap root ....... seeeee 661
Soot ........ee. ee eee eee 343
Sorrel acid ..... ee eee eee 564
Sorrel tree see eee ee eee 560

South American palm.... 385
Southern wood wo... .05. 3
Spanish Fly ......--eee- 189
Spiders... ees
Spider (Cuban) ..... .. 728
Spider (Papal cross) .... 79
Spider (Spamsh) .. .... 729

Spider web ...... seceeee 80
Spindie tree sveveeseeeee JID
Sprit weed ....... tenes 448
Spurge laurel .......-.. 293

Spurge olive ........65. 504
Sponge .o.eceseeeeeeenee 694
Sponge (fresh water).... 117
Saurting cucumber .... 310
Star of Bethlehem....... 562
St. John's wort ......... 390
St. Ignatia’s bean ....... 393
St. Mary’s thistle ....... 204
Starr grass .........+.+. 29
Staves adie co. sees eee ees 699
Stingtish ..........4.0006 147
Stinging nettle .......+.. 760
Stinkasand ..,.... veveve 102
Stone crop ...cccseeceee 574
Stone root ....... eseeee 262
Strawberry ......eeceeee 342
Strawberry tree ......... 81
Storksbill .............. 352
Sugar ...cce eee e ee eee eee 596
Sumach
Sumach (Chinese) ...... 28
LIST OF REMEDIES—COMMON NAMES

Sundew ........0 26 eee
Sunflower ..
Supra-renal .
Surucucu .
Swamp walnut ........ .
Sweethark 2.6... e eee
Swect Marjorem
Sweet spints of mittee ....
Sweet vernal grass
Sycamore Buttor.woed ..

Samalpass Lily .
Tansy
Tar Camphor
Tea ..
Teamster’s tea .....- .
Thorn apple ...... tienes
Thoroughwort
Thyme
Thyme-Comphor . ..-.--
Tiger Why 2 wee cece eee
Tin

Tobacco
‘Tomato
Trailing Arbutus .... ..
Tree moss
‘Tuberculous Jung
‘Turkey pea
Turpentine

Vanilla
Vegetable Charcoal ...s
Violet ....ecce cece eee eee
Viper (German) ......--
Virgin Bower ......--- oe

734

766
196
775
146
977
248

1109

PACK
Virgin creeper . .... . §3
Virgin stone crop... ..-- 574
Virgin vine ve cece eee eee 570
Wahor ......56. cee nee 318
Wall flower ......... vee 476
Walnut 413
Water ash oo... eee eee aee 615
Water avensy .....0 2.000. 381
Water dropwoit . ..... . 550
Water hemlock ......... 233
Water ly 2... eee eee eee 541
Watermelun seed... 24. 285
Wasp on... cee cee eee 773
Wild Cherry ..... 6 eae 612
Wild Hops ...... cee ee 152
Wild Indigo ..... . . 119
Wild Yam ....... .eeee 297
White aganc ... 2 oe. 142
White Beth root ........ 750
White Hellebore . oo... .. 767
White nettle 2... 451
Willow herb os. .ee eens 497
Wintergreen oo... eee eee 346
Wintcr cherry ..... «1. 587
Witch hazel ov... oe. 367

Woll’s lung ... eee. e eee 535

Wolf's bane .. cece ee 12
Worm moss ....-. ceeee 240
Worm sced ....-. eee eee 238
Worm wood ........-.0- 4
Yarrow .... eee eee eee ee 507
Yellow Jasmine ..... sees 347
Yellow dock ............ 644
Yerba Buena ..... ..... 507
Nerba Santa .......... -. 314
LIST OF REMEDIES
LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE
Abies Canadensis ....... 1
Abies nigra ........+-... 2
Abrotanum ....-........ 3
Abrus Precatorius ...... 411
Absinthium .... ........ 4
Acalypha ........e.eeee. 5
Acanthia ....-...ceeeeee 235
Acetanilid ..... 6
Acetic acid 6
Achyrantbes 13
Aconitum ferox ......... 13
Aconitum lycoton ....... 12
Aconitum napellus aeee B
Aconitine ..........060 12
Actwa racemosa ......... 236
Actw#a spicata .....-..666 1s
Adonis vernalis ........ 14
‘Adonidin ene 15
Adrenalin .. .....eeeuee 15
AEsculus glabra ......... 26
A€sculus hippocast. ...... 7
JEthiops merc. ........-. 20
Aithiops antimon. .......+ 20
J&thusa cynapium ....... 20
Agaricin ...... cee e ee eeee 143
Agaricus emeticus ....... 26
Agaricus muscarius ...... 23
Agaricus phalloides ...... 26
Agave .occcccceeccerece . 27
Agnus CastUB ....-seeee, 27
Agraphis ........... ace. 28
Agrimonia ...........+-. 375
AgropyruUn ....---seeeee 752
Agrostema ..........2605 669
Agrostis ......ceeeceeeee 15
Ailanthus ............00 28
Alcohol sulphuris ....... 202
Aletris farinosa ......... 29
Alfalfa wo... eee cece eens 30
Alkekengi .....- eee eee ee 587
Achyranthus ..........5 13

Allium cepa ....-..seeee 31

PAGE
Allium sativum ......... 33
Alnus wo... cece cece eee 34
Aloe socotrina ........-. 34
Aistonia constricta ...... 37,
Alumen .......ceeeeeeee 37
Alumina ......-..eeseeee 39
Alumin, acet. ........-6. 42
Alumin. slic. ........... 42
Alum, sil. sulph. ..... 42, 631
Alveloz ....-- sb eeveeeees 325
Amanita (agaricus) ...... 23
Amanita vernus .......-. 26
Ambra grisea ......-.60- 42
Ambrosia .......ee ee eeee 44
Amido benzene .......... 61
Ammoniacum ......000e6 44
Ammonium acet. ........ 8

Ammonium benzoicum ... 45
Ammonium brom. ....... 45
Ammonium carb.
Ammonium causticum .. 49
Ammonium formald. .... 340
Ammonium mur.

Ammonium phosp.
Ammonium picricum .... 53

Ammon. valer. ......... 765
Ammon. vanad. ......... 766
Amoracea .....eeeeeeeee 257
Ampelopsis .........0065 53
Amphisbena ...... ceeeees 448
Amygdala amara ........ 54
Anvygdalus Persica ...... 53
Amyl nitrite .......006- ~ $4
Anacardium occid. ...... 57
Anacardium orientale ... 55
Anagallis .............. 58
Anagyrig ...........0. +. 621
Anaholinum ............ 59
Anatherum ..........005 58
Ancistrodon) .......,005 - 215
Audromeda .........02.. $66
Androsace lactea ........ 192
1114

LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE

Anemopsis ..... rr 1)
Angelica. ..........05+-+ 624
Angophora ..........+ eee 317
Angustura .........06.6. 60
Anilinum .........-06 -» 61
Anisum stcllatum ....... 396
Anthemis ...........5005 6]
aAnthracinum ..... seeees - 62
Anthrakokali ........-656+ 63
Anthoxantum .......... + 102
Antifebrmum ......... a §=66
Antimonium aisenicum 63
Antimonium chlorid. ..... 66
Antimonium crudum ..... 63
Antimonium jodatum .... 66
Antimonium sulph. ...... 06
Antimonium tart. ....-.. 67
Antipyrin ....... see nee 69
Apiol ......... veeeeceaee 578
Apis mellifica ..... 2.24. 70
Aphis seeeeeee eee 249
a\Juum giavéuleugs oe. ee 74
Apium virus ............ 73
Apocynum andros ....... 75
Apocynum cannab. ....... 75
Apomorphia .........5- 1 7
Aqua calcarea ......... «» 170
Aqua marina ............ 52&
Aqua Regia ............ 540
Aqua Sanicula ..... eevee 660
Aquilegia ......ceeeeeees 77
Aragallus ........ceeeeee 7S
Araha hispida ........... 76
Aralia quinquefol ..... .. 352
Aralia racemosa ........ 78
Aranea diadema ...... . 79
Araneéa scinencia . ....-- 80
Arbus Precaturius ...... 411
tee ence ee eee » + 763
rbutus ss ........ «. 61
Arctostaphylos seeeree 7203
Arctium lappa .......... 452

PAGE
Areca oe eet cece e eee eee 81
Argemone ....-.eeeeeee- 81
Argentum cyan. ......... 86
Argentum jod. ...... wee. 86
Argentum met. ......... 82
Argentum mitric. ...... -. 83
Argentum oxyd. ....... . 87
Argentum phos, ........ 87
Aristolochia ........ . -87, 238
Arnica montana .....+-.. 87
Aisenicum album ....... 90
Arsenicum brom ........ 95
Aisenicum hydrog. .... , 6
Arsenicum jodatum ..... 96
Aiscnicum met. .....- see 98
Arsenicum sulph, .....-. 99

Artemisia abrotanum .... 3
Aitemisia absinthum .... 4
Artemisia vulgaris
Arum dracontium ..&....
Arum triphyllum .

Asafetida .....06.
Asagi@a 6. cece cence eee
AsaruM oe cece cree
Aselepias syniaca oe... eee 105
Asclepias tuberosa ...... 106
Asclepias vincetox ....... 105
ASIMA Lee eee eee ee eee eee, 106
Asparagus ..........50e 107
Aspetula .........ee sees 679
Aspidospgrma ........ «+. 108
a\stacue fluv ...... 108
Asterias rubens ... 108
Astragalus .........04. -. 119
Athamanta . ...... 23
Atoxyl ......0.. ~ 95
Atropin ... .. . - 131
Aurantium .......ee00e0e8 247
Auium arsenic ...eeeeee 113
Aurum brom. ......ee006 113
Aurum jodat. ........... 113
Aurum met. wo... e ee ee 110
1114

LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE

Anemopsis ..... rr 1)
Angelica. ..........05+-+ 624
Angophora ..........+ eee 317
Angustura .........06.6. 60
Anilinum .........-06 -» 61
Anisum stcllatum ....... 396
Anthemis ...........5005 6]
aAnthracinum ..... seeees - 62
Anthrakokali ........-656+ 63
Anthoxantum .......... + 102
Antifebrmum ......... a §=66
Antimonium aisenicum 63
Antimonium chlorid. ..... 66
Antimonium crudum ..... 63
Antimonium jodatum .... 66
Antimonium sulph. ...... 06
Antimonium tart. ....-.. 67
Antipyrin ....... see nee 69
Apiol ......... veeeeceaee 578
Apis mellifica ..... 2.24. 70
Aphis seeeeeee eee 249
a\Juum giavéuleugs oe. ee 74
Apium virus ............ 73
Apocynum andros ....... 75
Apocynum cannab. ....... 75
Apomorphia .........5- 1 7
Aqua calcarea ......... «» 170
Aqua marina ............ 52&
Aqua Regia ............ 540
Aqua Sanicula ..... eevee 660
Aquilegia ......ceeeeeees 77
Aragallus ........ceeeeee 7S
Araha hispida ........... 76
Aralia quinquefol ..... .. 352
Aralia racemosa ........ 78
Aranea diadema ...... . 79
Araneéa scinencia . ....-- 80
Arbus Precaturius ...... 411
tee ence ee eee » + 763
rbutus ss ........ «. 61
Arctostaphylos seeeree 7203
Arctium lappa .......... 452

PAGE
Areca oe eet cece e eee eee 81
Argemone ....-.eeeeeee- 81
Argentum cyan. ......... 86
Argentum jod. ...... wee. 86
Argentum met. ......... 82
Argentum mitric. ...... -. 83
Argentum oxyd. ....... . 87
Argentum phos, ........ 87
Aristolochia ........ . -87, 238
Arnica montana .....+-.. 87
Aisenicum album ....... 90
Arsenicum brom ........ 95
Aisenicum hydrog. .... , 6
Arsenicum jodatum ..... 96
Aiscnicum met. .....- see 98
Arsenicum sulph, .....-. 99

Artemisia abrotanum .... 3
Aitemisia absinthum .... 4
Artemisia vulgaris
Arum dracontium ..&....
Arum triphyllum .

Asafetida .....06.
Asagi@a 6. cece cence eee
AsaruM oe cece cree
Aselepias syniaca oe... eee 105
Asclepias tuberosa ...... 106
Asclepias vincetox ....... 105
ASIMA Lee eee eee ee eee eee, 106
Asparagus ..........50e 107
Aspetula .........ee sees 679
Aspidospgrma ........ «+. 108
a\stacue fluv ...... 108
Asterias rubens ... 108
Astragalus .........04. -. 119
Athamanta . ...... 23
Atoxyl ......0.. ~ 95
Atropin ... .. . - 131
Aurantium .......ee00e0e8 247
Auium arsenic ...eeeeee 113
Aurum brom. ......ee006 113
Aurum jodat. ........... 113
Aurum met. wo... e ee ee 110
LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE
Aurum mur. .....0..0065 113
Aurum mur. Kal. ....... 113
Avrum mur. Nat. ....... 114
Aurum sulph. ......... a 14
Avena sativa ...... eeeee V4
Aviare ...... beet eens 755
Azedirachta ............ 115
Bacllinum ........ seeeee 116
Bacilhnum testiuum ..... 137
Badiaga .......... ceeeee, 1M?
Baja’ ......e cece eee sees 227
Balsam Peru . 118
Balsam Tolu .......... 119
Bapusia confusa ...... +. 121
Raptisia tinctoria ........ 119
Barosma ........eeee eee 121
Baryta acet. .........06. 122
Baryta carh. ....... eee 122
Baryta )8d. . we. essa eee 126
Baryte mi, ... ..ee eee 125
Basaka ......se eee eves 415
Kelladonna .. ......05e. 127
Belhs perenmisy ......0-. 132
Benzmum ..seeseeeeee . 134

Benzin. dinitrie ......e-. 135
Benzin, nit. .... .. 6 2. 138
Benzoic acid .. ....e- 135
Berberns aquifolium ..... 137
Berbers vulgaris .. ..... 137
Betunica ......200. weeeee 140
Bismuthum .... 141
Blatta Americana ........ 142
Blatta orientalis ........ 142
Boldea ...... teveeeeeeas 221
Boletus laricis ........... 142
Boletus luridis .......... 143

Boletus satanus ......-.. 143
Bombyx ......... seeeree 108
Boracic. acid. ........... 143
Borax ve cence cece cecee 144
Bothrops ....se-eeeeeeee 146
Rotuhnum ....... weeeee 444

Bougmancia
Rovista .....
Prachyglottis
Branca .....
Brassica ......
Bromium .....
Brucea .......
Bryoma ......
Buchu ........
Bufo .... ....
Thungayus ....
Bursa pastoris
Butyric acid ..

1115

PAGE
. 704
- 147
. 149

- 686
. 150°

« 182
- 121
. 185

-282, 519

740
157

Cactus grandiflorus ...... 157

Cadmium ......... verees 160
Cadmium brom. ........5 161
Cadmium jodat. .. ...... 161
Caffein . 2... ccc. cee eae 259
Cahinea wo... eee eee eae 161
Cajuputum ........05 vaee 162
Caladium oo... ee ce eeee 163
Calearca acctica ... 6. 2. 164
Calearea arsemea ....... 164
Calcarea bromata ........ 71
Calcarea caleinata ....... 371
Calearca carbomeca ...... 165
Calcarea caustiea ....... 170
Calearcva fluorica ........ 172
Caleaiva hypophos. = .... 177
Calearca yodata ........ . 174
Calearea lactic ........., 171
Calcarea muriatica ...... 171
Calearca ostrearum ...... 165

Calcarea ovorum ........ 171

Calearea oxalica ......... 164
Calcarea phosphorica .... 175
Calearca picrata ...... » 171

Calearea renalis ........ 177
Calcarea silicata ........ 177
cee 451

Calcarea silica fluor
Calcarea sulphurica

+ 178
1116

PAGE
Calcarea sulph. stib ..... 174
Calendula .......ceeeees 180
Calotropis ......ees eens 182
Caltha palustris ......... 182
Camphora .........eeeee 182
‘Camphora monobrom. 185
Camphorie acid. ......... 184
Canarastacus ..........68 108
Canchalagua ..........+. 185
Cannabis Indica ........ 185
Cannabis sativa ........- 188
Cantharis .......0eee0ee 189
Capparis ......... seeeeee 497
Capsella ...-eeeee eee ee 740
Capsicum ...........4. +» 192
Carbamide .......... sees 760
Carbo animalis .......... 194
Carbo vegetabilis ........ 196
Carbolic, acid. .......... 200
Carbon, hydrog. ........ . 202
Carbon. oxygenisatum 202

Carbon. sulphuratum ..,.. 202
Carcinosin ...e.ceeeeeee 207
Carduus benedictus ...... 205
Carduus Marianus ...... 204
Carica ...... eee eee eee . 571
Carlsbad ......sceeeeeeee 205
Cascara sagrada ......... 206
Cascarilla  ..... cee eee eee 207
Cassia acutif. ........... 675
Castanea vesica ......... 208
Castor equi. ............ 208
Castoreum ....... 6. eee 208
Catalpa wo... .cee cece «. 108
Catara .... eee ccc eee 675
Caulophyllum ......... -. 209
Causticum .......0...005 210
Ceanothus ..........5065 213
Cedron ...... sc eee ones 214
CHS cee ec eee eee » 215
@whtaurea .. 0... eee 704
refolius .........00. +. 566
Cerium oxalicum ........ 216

LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE
Cereus Bonplandii ...... . 215
Cereus serpentinus ...... 216
Cetraria ........000e eevee 104
Cephalantus ........ seeee 243
Chalmugra ...........005 597
Chamomilla ..........005 217
Chaparro .....-.....00-- 219
Cheiranthus ............. 476
Chelidonium ............ 219
Chelone ........05. eevee 223
Chenopodium ..........+. 222
Chenopod. Aphis ........ 222

Chimaphila maculata .... ’
Chimaphila umbel. ... ...

China of .........ecceeee 240
Chininum arsenicosum 225
Chininum muriaticum .. 220
Chininum salicylicum .... 227
Chininum sulphuricum ... 226
Chicocea .........+64 %.., 161
Chionarthus .......... ~. 227
Chloralum . » 4 ees 228
Chloroform .........006- 230
Chlorumn .............005 230
Cholas terrapina ........ 290
Cholesterinum .......... » 231
Choline ..... Jc... cceeee 731
Chopheenee ............. 428
Chromic acid. ........... 232
Chromium sulph. ........ 232
Chrysanthemum ......... 654
Chrysarobinum sees ecceee 233
Cicuta virosa ....... a+ 233
Cicuta maculata ......... 235
Cimex oe. cece eee eee oe 235
Cimicifuga 2... eee ee 236
Cima wi... .. eee ee ee eee 238
uinchona .. ...... 20. 240
Cineraria .. ... 2... wee 243
Cimnabans . ............ 244
Ciinamonum ............ 245
Cistus ...6.. ce eee eee ee 246
LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE
Citrus decumana ........ 247
Citrus hmonum ......... 247
Citrus vulgaris ......... 247
Clematis erecta .......... 248
Clematic vitalba ......... 249
Cobaltum 22... eee eee 249
Coca .ecceee cece es eeaee 250
Cocainum  ......- eee eee 251
Coccinella ...........65- 252
Coceulus 2... cess cece ees 253
Coccus cacti ............ 256
Coclearia ............00 257
Cod@inum wee eeceeeeeee 258
Coffea cruda .........06. 258
Coffea tosta .........006. 259
Colchicum .......068 cee 260
Colchicin .......6. eee 262
Collinsonia 1... wee. eee 262
Colocynthis 2.1.66. eee ees 264
Colostrum oo... eee ee eee 444
Commoclatha .........60 266
Conchiolin .......... 177, 370
Condurango .........00ee 267
Conium ...... eee eee ees 267
Convallaria ........008 271
Convolvulus ........+--- 140
Copaiva .....e cece eee eee 272
Coqueluchin .........555 $74
Corallium ........ seveeee 274
Coralorhiza .....-.e.eee 275
Cornus alternifolia ...... 275
Cornus circinata ...0° .... 275
Cornus florida ........ Soa. 278
Corydalis ....... eeeeeee 276
Coto .ecceee eee eeeeeenne 285
Cotyledon ...........00.. 276
Coumarin ..ceeee eee e eee 749
Crate#gus oo... eee eee. eee 277
Crocus Sativa ............ 278
Crotalus casoavella ,..... 282
Crotalus horridus ........ 280
Croton tiglium .......... 283
Cubeba .... cee eee eee 284

PAGE
Cucurbita ..... seeeeeeeee 285
Cucurbita citrellus ....... 665
1 Cuphea ....e cece eee wees 285
Cupressus austral ........ 744
Cupressus Lawson ....... 744
Cuprum aceticum ........ 286
Cuprum arsenitum ....... 286
Cuprum cyanatum ....... 290
Cuprum metallicum ...... 287
Cuprum oxyd ..0.....0005 290
Cuprum sulpbanicum ..... 290
Curare ....cecseceeeereee 290
Cuscus ... ce cece eee eee ee 58
Cusparia .. 2... cece eee eee 60
Cyclamen ........6 se eee 291
Cydonia ............005 +» 243
Cymarin .........ee oeee 76
Cyanckum .........00008
Cypripedium
Cysticin ..........005 .. . 291
Cystisus laburnum ....... 442
Cystisus scopar .......... 691
Damiana ..........-000s 758
Daphne Indica .......... 293
Datura arborea .......... 704
Derris pin .......... wees 438
Diadema ......-.....008 79
Theentra oo... cece eee 276
Dictamnus ...........04 «+ 679
Digitalis .......... dseeee 294
Digitoxinum ............ 297
Dioscorea ....... 6. cece ae 297
Diosma ......... seceeree 299
Diphtherinum ........... 300
Diphtherotoxin .......... 300
Dipodium ............44 + 266
Dipterix 2.0.0.0... . 000 » 749
Direa palustris ......... « 506
Ditain ....... se eeeeeeee . 37
Dolichos ...........0008 - 300
Doryphora ..........0005 301
Drosera .......... seeeeee 302
1118
PAGE

Duboisia ...........02 08 303
Dulcamara ..... seve eeeee 304

Echinacea ........00+++0+ 307
Hel serum ........0.-006 297
Egg vaccine ...... seaeeee 564
Blais .... cc. cece eee ee eee 385
Elaps corallinus ......... 308
Elaterium .......+..--.+- 310

Electricitas ........60+.. 784
Electron .......- seceeees 712
Emetine ...........006-+ 406
Enlexing .......02..05 wee 725
Ephedra ..... ee eeeeee wee 474
Epigea ..... beeeee beens . 311
Epilobium ..........- oes 497

Mpiphegus ......0+e+05+- 312
Equisetum .........-00.. 312
Erechtites .......-..+-6. 313

Ergot ....... beeen 667
Virgotin ose cee eee eee 669
Erigeron .....-.eeeereee 313
Friedictyon ..........+4. 314
Erodium .......eeeee eee 352
Erynginm .....-ee-eeee es JLS
Erythrie chiron ......... 185
Erythrinus ........... -.. 498
Erythroxylon ....... ws. 250
Eschscholtzia ........ oe 560

Kserime  ....-...e eee eee. 589
Escoba amargo .......... 572

Tucalyptol ......-..2.08. O17
Fucalvptus .......eeee00- 315
Fucalypt. rostr. ......... 310

Eudalyptus tereticoris .... 317
Eugenia jambos ......... 317
Eugenia checune ........ 310
Euonymin ....... seceees 319
Evsonymus atrop ........ 318
Eupatosium aromat ...... 319
Eupatorium perfol. ...... 319
Eupatorium purpur. ..... 321
Euphorbia amygdal ...... 324

LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE

Euphorbia corollata ...... 324
Euphorlna Cypar ..,....+ 325
Euphorbia heterodoxa ... 325
Euphorbia lathyris ....... 322
Euphorbia pilulifera ..... 325

Euphorbia polycaipa ..... 357
Euphorbia resimifeia ..... 323
Euphorbium .....cceeeee 323
iuphrasa ....... seees 325
Kupion .......... cee ee . 327

Evonyon Europ . ....... 319

Fabiana .......... «571,593
Fagopyrum .. .. ...... 327

Fagus ..........0-- wees G12
Fel taurt wc... eee eee 329
Fer1um aceticum ........ 332
Ferrum arsenicum ....... 332
Fer:xum bromatum ....... 333

Ferrum citric... 208... 2206
Ferrum cyanatum ...... 333
berrum todatum .. ...... 329
Fernum magneticum ...... 330
Ferrum metallicum ....... 339
Ferrum muriaticum ...... 333
Ferium pernitiicum ...... 333
Ferrum phosphoricum .... 333
Fevrum picricum ......... 336
Ferrum protoxal.  ...... 333
Ferrum pyrophos ....... 335
Ferrum sulphuricum ..... 333
Ferrum tattanicum .....,.. 333
Ferula glauca... ....ques 56)
Fieus .......... + ee 336, 560
Fihx mas ........ veeeeee 337
Fluoric acid .......ee005 337
Flvnorvfuim ....... creeeae 3Q3
formalin. .......+.065 339
Formic acid ........-..6+ 342
Formica rufa ............ 340
Fragaria .. ........e eae. 348
Franciscea ........2505++. 592
Frargula sone eereeceee 633
LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE
Fraxinus ......seeeeeeeee 343
Fucus ..... pee eccererssee 344
Fuligo ligni .........05 « 343
Fushina .......-0000- 192 344
Gadus morrhua ......-... 554
Galega .......... ee eeeees 342
Galipea .... eee eee tenses 60
Galium 0. coc c cece eee

Galhe acid
Ganibogin ......cseeeenee
Gaulthetia
Gelaun .ecceeceee eee eens
Gelscemium
Genista co.cc cece eee eee §
Gentiina cruciata ...... . 351
Gentina lutea ...eeeeeee 351
Gentiana quinquef ....... 351
Gettysburg water ......... 352
Gerania ee ee ees 352
Geranium ..cecsesseeeees 351
Geum ....cceeee ceeeeeee DSL
Ginseng .....-.c0ceereee 352
Glanderine ..esecereeeee 380
Glonoine .....ceeeereeees 353
Glycerine oo. cece eee ees 355
Gnaphalium ...-.eee- wees 356
Golondrina ....++ee ween 357
Gossypium wee ee eens 357
Granatum .  veaeeeeee 358
Graphites 1. cess eee 353
Gratiola veeMevees 362
Grindelga ......--.066 ‘vaee 362
Guaco oo. ce eeeee eee eeeee
Guaiacol

Guaiatum ...
Guano ....
Guao
Guarana
Guarea ....
Guipsine ....... teeeeeees
Gummi gutti ...........

Gunpowder ...... seers oe

1119

PAGE
Gymnenna .......-2- + . 357
Gymnocladus .......655 - 366
Hematoxylon ...... 0 ..+0- 367
Hamamelis ........5- +. 367
Hedeoma ......-.-eeeees » 369
Hedysarum .........0000 189
Hekla lava .........005 +. 370
Helianthus .......-..6+ +. 372
Heliotropum ...... eee 525
Hehx tosta .. .-.. cee eee 508
Helleborus fotidus ....... 372
Helleborus niger .... 1.0 379
Helleborus orientalis ..... 372
Helmintochortos ..... eee 240
Heloderma .........0005 « We
Helonias oe. scceeeenenee 374
Hepar sulphuris .....- vee 375
Tlepatica we. cece eee eee oe 379
Heracleum ....... ese euee 171
Hippomanes ........+-. «+ 482
Hippozeninum ...... vee. 380
Hoang-Nan ...-......- 95, 385
Hoitzia wo. eee eee eee oD
Homarus .........-- seeee 380
Humea ...-..e. cueeee +. 611
Humulus lupulus......2.. 467
Hura ..... es eee eee eee «. 385
Hydrangea .........e see. 381
Hydrargyium ....... wees 493
Hydrastin eee eeeenees 384
Hydrastininum mur. .... 383
Hydrastis ..........000. 381
Hydrast. sulph. ........ . 384
Hydrobromic acid ..... «. USL
Hydrocatyle ..........4. 384
Hydrocyanic acid ...... . 385
Hydrcphobinum ......... 386
Hydrophyllum .......... 326
Hydropiper ...... seveeee 606
Hyoscyamus ......... ose 387

Hyoscin hydrobrom. .....
Hypericum ..... severeee 399
1120

PAGE
Vberis .. ec ccceeceeeeeees SOL
Ichthyolum ...........-. 393
Ichthyotoxin ........ 297, 679
Tetodes ........-...ceeee 609
Ignatia ........c seen . 393
Ikshugandha ............ 749
Thex .. ccc cee cece reece 397
THlecebrum ...........065 155
Illicium 0... eee eee eee 396
Indigo ........cc cece eeee 397
Indium ..........0e eee 398
Indol ....... cece eee aes . 399
Inula oo... . ce eee ee eee 399
Todoformum ............ 400
Icdothyrine ..........066 747
Todum ........0cceeseeee 40!
Toduretted potass. yod.... 404
Ipecacuanha ............ 404
Tpomma ..cccee eee eeeee 140
Tridium  ...........00005 407
Iridium chlor. .......... 407
Iris factissima .......... 409
Tris florentina ...... sees 409
Iris germanica .......... 409
Iris minor ......-..s.00- 409
Iris tenax .........00. «. 409
Iris versicolor .......... 408
Isotonic plasma ......... 528
Jaborandi .......... wee 594
Jacaranda caroba ....... 409
Jecaranda gualandai ..... 410
Jacea (Viola tricolor) .... 776
Jalapa wc. eee e eee eee 41u
Jambosa ............0.0. 317
Jatropha curcas ......... 411
Jatropha urens .......... 41)
Jequiritoi ......... cee eee 411
Jéquirity .... . 411
Jonosia ..... eee 41:
Juglandin .. eres... 413

Jughans cineaendes, wees 412
Juglans reghd@ke.. 00. 413

LIST OF REMEDIES

PACE
Juncus effusus .......... 414
Juniperus communis ..... 414
Juniperus Virginianus .... 414

Justicia 2.0.0... ccc eee eee 415
Kalagua ...........0000e 755
Kali aceticum ..... eeneee 425
Kali arsenitum .......... 415
Kali bichromicum ....... 416
Kali bromatum .......... 420
Kali carbonicum ......... 421
Kali chloricum .......... 425
Kali citricum ............ 425
Kali cyanatum ...... ...

Kali ferrocynatum
Kali hydroiodicum
Kali hypophos ...........
Kali muriaticum ... .....
Kali nitricum .......

Kali oxalicum ......

Kali permanganum
Kali phosphoricum

Kali picricum ........+-.
Kali picro-nitria

Kali salicylicum .........
Kali silicum ......

Kah sulphuratum

Kali sulphuricum

Kali sulph. chrom. ...... 437
Kali tartaricum ......... 425
Kali telluricum .......... 425
KRalmia ..fe......ee eens 437
Kaolinum ...........4 ¢.. 439
Kava-hava .. ......eeeee 597
Kino .....6. cece tweens 316
Koch’s lymph ........ wee 155
Kola .......... se eeaee +. 702
Kouussu 2... cee cee eee eee
Krameria

Kreosotum

Laburnum .. ........-6. 442
Lac caninum ...........- 442
LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE

Lac defloratum ..... 444

Ld&c felanum ............ 444
Tac vaccinum ........... 444
Lac vace. coagulatum.... 444
Lac vace. flos. .......6.. 444
Lacerta... ccc ceee eee e ee 373
Lachesis ....ee eee eee eee 444
Lachesis lanceolat ..... 146
Lachnantes ....... 448
Lactic Acid, ........006- 449
Lactuca viresa .......46+ 450
Laffa acutang .......... 184
Laminum ....---..eeeee 451
Lapathum .......25. ee 645
Lapis albus .......---56- 451
Lapis renalis ........ eee 177
Tappa se... ce eee cece eee 452
Lathyrus ...... ceeeee eee 452
Latrodectus hasselti ..... 454
Latrodegtus kahpo .....- 454
Latrudectus mactans ...-- 453
Laurocerasus

Lava scorie . .

Lecithin .....--

Ledum .....--++

Lemna minor .-.

Leonurus ...-6+---++ 370,

Lepidium .
Leptandra ....-
Leptilon ....

Levico .secseeececeereeee 95
Liatris 2.26.0 ceeceeee sees 461
Lignum vite .... - 365
Liliume¢igyinum ......... 459
Limulg oo. cee eee eee 461
Linaria ....ccceeeee renee 462

Linum
Lippia Mexicana ........ 441
Lithium benzoicum .....
Lithium carbonicum .....
Lithium lacticum ........
Lithium chlor .........+-
Lobelia card. ........-605
Lobelia cerulia ......++-

eee ete ev eee neee

466
465

1121

PAGE
Lobeha ermus ........... 465
Lobeha inflata .......... 464
Tobeha purpurescens .... 466
Lobelia syphilitica ...... 465
Lolium temulentum ..... 460
Lonicera .........-.065- 467
Lonicera periclymcenum ... 467
Luffa acutangula ........ 184
TLupulin .-.... 2. cee wees 468
Tupulug  .. cee eee eee) 467
Lycopersicum ........-.5 688
Lycopodium ..... Sevens 468
Lycoptn we... eee eee soe 473
Lysidin .. 0.6.0 whee ee eee 54]
Lyssin wee ee eee cece eee SBO
Lysimachia ...... seeeeee 757
Macrotin . ...........+. 238
Macrotis racemosa ...... 236
Macrozamia ............ 435
Magnesia carbonica ..... 474
Magnesia muiiatica ..... 476
Magnesia phosphorica ... 478
Magnesia sulphitis ...... 481
Magnesia sulphurica ..... 480
Magnet artif. ....... .. 718
Magnet. p ambo......757, 784
Magnet. pol. Arctic .. .. 718
Magnet. pol. Austral. ... 718
Magnolia .......+... +e. 481
Mahonia ..........00000- 140
Malandrinum ... ....... 482
Malaria officinalis ....... 535
Mallein .......+. seeeeees 380
Manaca (Francesca) ..... 592
Mancinella .............. 482
Manganum aceticum ..... 483
Manganum mur. ......... 485
Manganum ox. .......... 485
Mangenum sul. ......... 485
Mangifera ..........174, 485
Manzanita .............. 763
Mapato ...........0.000. 631
Marrubium ...,......... 384
1122

PAGE
Marum verum .......... 735
Matico ............0005- 441
Medicago ............06 30
Medorrhinum .......... . 485
Medusa ........e.eeceeee 488
Mel cum sale. ........665 488
Melilotus .....eseeeeeeee 488
Melilotus alba .......... 489
Menispermum ..........- 490
Mentha piperita ........ 490
Mentha puleg. .......... 490
Menthol .......0eceeeees
Menyanthes
Memphitis
Mercurialis perennis .... 493
Mercurius acetic ........ 497
Mercurius auiatus ....... 497
Mercurius sol. .......-.- 493
Mercurius biniod .. ...«. 501
Mercurius bromatus ..... 497
Mercurius corrosiv. ..... 502
Mercurius cum Kali .... 498
Mercurius cyanatus ..... 498
Mercurius dulcis ........ 500
Mercurius iod. flav. ..... 500
Mercurius iodatus rub. ... 501
Mercurius nitrosus ...... 497
Mercurius phosphor. ..... 497
Mercurius precip. rub.... 497
Mercurius protoiod ..... . 500
Mercurius sub. corros.... 502
Mercurius sulphuricus ... 498
Mercurius sulph. rub..... 244
Mercurius tannicus ...... 498
Meeeurius vivus ......+. 493
Methylene blue .......... 504
Methylene salicyl. ....... 346
Mezereum .......-.0000. 504
Miopomeria ........ 60055 0507
Mikania ..... seeceeeesee 364
Millefolium ....... aeeees 507
Millepedes, .......... 555
Mimosa ceqeceeeceeeee oe 640
Mirbane ......++.6 veeee 134

LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE
Mitchella .............4. 508
Mormordica ..........4.. 5
Mormordica charant...284. 508
Morphinum 509
Moschus ......... 511
Muco-toxin 380
Mucuna .......ceceeeee - 300
Mullein oil ............ « 772
Murex 2.0... 0 ..c eee eae 512
Muriatic acid ........... 513
Musocarin .........0000- 26
Mygale 515
Myosotis .......--.0000- 516
Myrmexine ........... .. 340
Myrica ..... cece eee cece 516
Myristica ....... cece eee 517
Myrtus checkan ......... 318
Myrtus communis ....... 518
Nabalus ............ acess 450
Naja tripudians ......... 518
Naphthaline
Narcissus ....
Nasturtium
Natrum arsenicum ...... 521
Natrum cacodyl. ......... 524
Natrum carbonicum ..... 522
Natrum chloratum ....... 524
Natrum choleinicum ..... 535
Natrum hyposulph ...... 535
Natrum iodatum ........ 535
Natrum lacticum ........ 531
Natrum funaticum ..... 525
Natrum nitricum »..4«... 529
Natrvm nitrosum ........ 529
Natrum phosphoricum.... 529
Natrum salicylicum ...... 53i
Natrum seleuicum ...... , 528
Natium silicu-fluor. ...... 529
Natrum silicum ......... 528
Natrum sulpho-carbol..... 531
Natrum sulphuricum ..... 532
Natrum sulphurosum .... 531
Natrum telluricum ...... 531
LIST OF REMEDIES

° PAGE
Natrum taurochol ....... 231
Nectandra .......0:eeee 582
Negundium ......eeeeeee 20
Nepeta ....eecceeeee ee eee 675
Nerium odorum ......... 296
Neurine wo... eeee eee ee eee 731
Niccolum met. .... eee eee 535
Niccolum sulph. .......-- 536
Nicotinum ......e.000ee 727
Nitric acid ....-..eeeree 537
Nitri spiritus dulcis. ...- 540
Nitro-murtatic acid ...... 540
Nitrum ......eee ee cee 431
Nuphar luteum ....-..-- 541
Nux moschata ....-++-++: 542
Nttx vomica eeveeeeeeeee 544
Nyctanthes ...--- + ss 549
Nymphea ..--++- see ee eee 541
Ocimum, canum «2... +s. 549
CEnanthe ...--6-00+ seveee 950
CEnanthera ...-..- «- 226, 610
Ocenothera ....-ceeeeeeee 226
Céstrus cameli ........ . 398
Oleander ...-- «+> bees 550
Oleum animale ...... ... 552
Oleum cajaput ......eeee 162
Oleum caryophyllum ..... 119
Oleum jecoris ........006 533
Oleum myristica ........ 543
Oleum santali ........... 554
Oleum Succinum ........ 44
Oleum Wittnebianywm .... 162
Oniscup asellus ....2....- $55
Ononis spinosa .......... 735
Onosmodium ............ 555
Oophorinum .........66 .. 557
Operculina ....... seeee « 557
Opium ...c. cca cence ees 557
Opuntia ...........ccee es 560
Orchitinum .....5.....-. 557

Oreodaphne ...........-- 561
Orexine tann, ........+-+ 643

Origanum ........
Ornithogalum ....

Orobanche .........0000-
Orpiment 0... ccc eeeee -. 98
Osmium oo... cee eeeeenee 562
Ostrya ..........008. wee 56S
Ova tosta ...cccceeseeeee 171
Ovi gall. pellicula ....... 563
Qxahtc acid ec. cece eens 564
Oxydendion ... we eee eee 566
Oxytiopis oo. cece eee eee 566
Ozonum 2... .cec eee enone 679
Peoma ..... dence eeeees 567
Pakur ........ beeeee 507, 560
Palladium .......- sreeees 968
Pambotano .............. 227
Pancreatinum ........... 409
Papaver somnif, ........ . 557
Papaya ............. wees S7L
Paraffine ......s0eseereee 969
Pareira brava ..........- 570
Parietaria ..... tence eee .» 570
Paris quadrifolia ..... «ee S71
Parthenium ............. 572
Passiflora .......0065 veee $73
Pastinaca .......... soeee 572
Paullima ...... seeeeeees 573
Payhala malto .......... 549
Pecten ..cseeeeeree secre 19
Pedicularis ....... cesses s 669
Pediculus .......... eveee 615
Pelias ..... seneceveccees 048
Pelletierine ......+-. sees 358

Penthorum ......eccesone 574
Persicaria urens

(Polygon. hydopiper.).. 606

Petroleum seeeeeeenes S75
Petroselinum ..... evvevee S77
Pertussin ..... 208, 574
Phaseolus ..... 578
Phellandrium .. 578
Phenazone ...., 69
Phenol ..... oe 200
1124 LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE
Phloridzin .............. 760
Phosphoric acid ........ . 579

Phosphorus ............. 582
Phosphorus hydrogen .... 587
Phosphor. pentachl. ...... 586
Physalis .............107, 587
Physostigma ............. 588

Phytolacca ........ --. 590
Phytolacca berry ... . 592
Pichi ............. 593
Picric acid ..... eee ees 593
Picrotoxin ......5.0006-5 255
Pilocarp. mur, .......... 596
Pilocarpus .....-..e0 wee 594
Pimenta 2.0... 0c een eee 21
Pimpmella ...........566 307
Pinus canadensis ........ 1
Pinus Lambertina ....... 596
Pinus sylvestris ......... 596
Piperizine 2.2... cee eee 589
Piper methysticum ...... 597
Piper nigrum ..........- 597
Piserndia 2.2... ee eee 182
Pituitrin .. 2...) wee eee 597
Pix liquida ............- 59x
Plantago ........ee eee -. 598
Platanus ...........0005 . 599
Platina metallicum ....... 599
Platina muriaticum ...... 601

Platina mur. nat. . ..... 601
Plectranthus ............ 604
Plumbago .... oe. 640
Plumbum aceticum ...... 604
Plumbum chromicum ..... 604

Plu m iodatum ....... 601
PB metallicum ..... 602
Flumbum phosph. ....... 604

Pneumo coccin ... ....¢ 587
Pneumo toxin .... ...... 587
Pheumus Bello .... .. 535

ephyllum =. sevens 604
Pollatin .......65....... 048
Polygonum aviculere .... 607
Polygonum: persica ...... 607

PAGE
Polygonum punctatum .. 606
Polymnia ...........213 372
Polyporus off. .......... 142
Polyporus pin. ......... 607
Populus candicans ..... 607
Populus tremuloides ...., 608
Pothos feetidus ......... 609
Trenanthes ..........5. » 450
Primula farimosa ....... 610
Primula obcomia ........ 610
Primula veris .......... 609
Propylamin ........... . Oli.
Protargol ...... cece eeee, BF
Prunus padus ....... .. 612
Prunus spinosa ........ 6ll
Prunus Virginuana ..... 612
Psoralea .... cece aeeee 325
Psorinum ... ... seenee » 612
Ptelea woe. .eee wae eee O15
Pulex irritans ...... ares 616
Pulmo vulpis ............ 535
Pulsatilla Nuttahana ... 621
Pulsatilla nigricans ..... 617
Pyrara .... cee e eee eee 718
Pyrogenium .........06 621
Pyrus ...... seneeeeeee 612
Quassia ... 1.1... seevees 624
Quebracho .........-... 108
Quercus gland. spiritus... 624
Quillaya .......... sees 625

.

Rademacher’s liquor . en 789
Radium ....... Te eteeeees 625
Rana bufo ...........++. 155
Ranunculus acris ......-. 628
Raaunculus bulbosus ..... 627
Ranunculus flammula .... 628
Ranunculus glacialis ..... 628
Ranunculus repens ...... 628
Ranunculus scleratus .... 629
Raphanus .............. 630
Ratanhia ..........0..26- 631
1124 LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE
Phloridzin .............. 760
Phosphoric acid ........ . 579

Phosphorus ............. 582
Phosphorus hydrogen .... 587
Phosphor. pentachl. ...... 586
Physalis .............107, 587
Physostigma ............. 588

Phytolacca ........ --. 590
Phytolacca berry ... . 592
Pichi ............. 593
Picric acid ..... eee ees 593
Picrotoxin ......5.0006-5 255
Pilocarp. mur, .......... 596
Pilocarpus .....-..e0 wee 594
Pimenta 2.0... 0c een eee 21
Pimpmella ...........566 307
Pinus canadensis ........ 1
Pinus Lambertina ....... 596
Pinus sylvestris ......... 596
Piperizine 2.2... cee eee 589
Piper methysticum ...... 597
Piper nigrum ..........- 597
Piserndia 2.2... ee eee 182
Pituitrin .. 2...) wee eee 597
Pix liquida ............- 59x
Plantago ........ee eee -. 598
Platanus ...........0005 . 599
Platina metallicum ....... 599
Platina muriaticum ...... 601

Platina mur. nat. . ..... 601
Plectranthus ............ 604
Plumbago .... oe. 640
Plumbum aceticum ...... 604
Plumbum chromicum ..... 604

Plu m iodatum ....... 601
PB metallicum ..... 602
Flumbum phosph. ....... 604

Pneumo coccin ... ....¢ 587
Pneumo toxin .... ...... 587
Pheumus Bello .... .. 535

ephyllum =. sevens 604
Pollatin .......65....... 048
Polygonum aviculere .... 607
Polygonum: persica ...... 607

PAGE
Polygonum punctatum .. 606
Polymnia ...........213 372
Polyporus off. .......... 142
Polyporus pin. ......... 607
Populus candicans ..... 607
Populus tremuloides ...., 608
Pothos feetidus ......... 609
Trenanthes ..........5. » 450
Primula farimosa ....... 610
Primula obcomia ........ 610
Primula veris .......... 609
Propylamin ........... . Oli.
Protargol ...... cece eeee, BF
Prunus padus ....... .. 612
Prunus spinosa ........ 6ll
Prunus Virginuana ..... 612
Psoralea .... cece aeeee 325
Psorinum ... ... seenee » 612
Ptelea woe. .eee wae eee O15
Pulex irritans ...... ares 616
Pulmo vulpis ............ 535
Pulsatilla Nuttahana ... 621
Pulsatilla nigricans ..... 617
Pyrara .... cee e eee eee 718
Pyrogenium .........06 621
Pyrus ...... seneeeeeee 612
Quassia ... 1.1... seevees 624
Quebracho .........-... 108
Quercus gland. spiritus... 624
Quillaya .......... sees 625

.

Rademacher’s liquor . en 789
Radium ....... Te eteeeees 625
Rana bufo ...........++. 155
Ranunculus acris ......-. 628
Raaunculus bulbosus ..... 627
Ranunculus flammula .... 628
Ranunculus glacialis ..... 628
Ranunculus repens ...... 628
Ranunculus scleratus .... 629
Raphanus .............. 630
Ratanhia ..........0..26- 631
LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE
Resorcin ......... ...00- 642
Rhamnus Calif. ......... 632
Rhamnus cath. ......-... 633
Rhamnus pursh, ...... 633
Mheum ....... woes 633
Rhodium .............+-- 634
Prododendion . ........ 634
Rhus aromatica . ...... 636
Rlus diversiloba ..... 040
Rhas glabra... weve + 636
Rhog radicans ... 02.06. 640
Rhig toxicodendron ..... 637
Rhus vencnata .. ... « 641
Ricmus cemmunis 642
Robinia 2... 06 eee eee eee 642
Rosa damascena ......... 643
Rosmarinus ...... veces 051
Rubia tinctor .. 2 ...... 655
Rumex aceto ... ..-. » 645
Rumex cpepus «eee 644
Rumex obtus ...-e0-) cee 645
Ruta graveolens ... 1... 045
Sabadilla . ....- cece eee 647
Sabal serrulata .. ....... 648
Sabina .....--- nn 649
GSaccharin ... .....6. +. 652
Saccharum lactis ... .... 652
Saccharum officinalis ..... 651
Salaginella ..... ....00. 652
Salamandra ..... ..6.... 156
Salicylhe acid ........... 653
Salix nigra ..... 654
Sal magnum - 528
Galol ...cc cece ee cece ee ee 653
Galufer ...............2, 529
Salvia officinalis ........ 654
Salvia sclerata .......... 654
Sambucus Canadensis ... 656
Sambucus nigra ......... 655
Sanguinaria ............. 656
Sanguinaria nitrica ...... 659
Sanguinaria tartar ...... 659
Ganguinsuga ..... ...... 586

PAGE
Sanicula 2.0... cece eee 661
Sanicula aqua ......... 660
Santalum ...... 0.00.00 273
Santoninum ..... Lene e eee 661
Saponania .... ...... 625, 601
Saponin .....00 6 cee eee 622
Sarco lactic acid « ++ 95, 062
Sarracenia .......-.. . 663
Sarsaparilla . 2... 1... 664
Saururus 2... eee eee 665
Sw Palmetto .... .. . 648
Saxomte .....6.0. 06- ves 688
Sewrhinuin ...........005 270
Scolopendra .. ...... 448, 565
Scopanum ...... . . ... 689
Scopola .......+-- ... 389
Scopolam. hy drubrom. 389
Scorpio 2... se eecee sere eee 273
Scrophularia ............ 665
Seutellaria ..... sane ee 666
Secale cornutum ..... .. 667
Sedum acre .....0 seeee 070
Sedum alpestra ..... 670
Sedum repens ...... 670
Sedum telephicum ... 670
Selenium ..... senna 670
Sempervivum tector . 672
Senecio ......ceeeee 672
Senecio Jacobea .... 673
Senega ...... dence 674
Senna woes cee eneee 675
Scpia .......0. eeee 676
Sepsin .....2.06. oe 623
Serpentaria per. .
(Aristolochia) .... 87
Serum anguilla ..... 679
Serratula ........ see 461
Silica marina ...,... 685
Silicea ............4. 681
Silioa fluor, calcar, .. 451
Sil. sul. cale. Alum.. 631
Silphion cyrenaicum . 685
Silphium ............ 685
1126 LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE | va
Sumne a 6k cee eee 214 | Strophantus ....... eee ee 799
sinuapts alba vec eee eee eee 685 ptischninum .. eee... eee ZEN
SNAP MIRTA we ee eee oe. O80 | Stivehming ar. cece eee ee al
Stuyrinchum ...... eeeee 357 | Strych. et. Fer. cit. 2... 7
Slatol ...... so veeeeee OBZ | Strychnin, phos. ... .... 712
~ oom chuck O87 Strychnos Gaulth ........ 98
Slag .. tenes 631 Stiychnos tiente
Solinun acctieum 6. ... O88 | Strych valerian
Solanvem Carohinese ... ONO Suceimte aed 2... . eee eee
Solanum Teeopersicum .. G88 Sneanum steno
Solanun: mamrmosum + 689 sulfonal
Solanum mgrum ..  .... 689 | Sulphur...
Selanum oleraceum 2... o89 | Sulphur hydrogen seeeaes 718
Solanum pseudo caps... 690 | Sulphur iodatum ...... 719
aulanum tuberosum ..... 690 Sulphur terebinthin 2... 718
Sulanum tuber. agro. .... 690 | Sulphurie, ae see
Solanum vesicatum ...... 690 Sulphur ous acid. .....
Solidaca . cece cee e eee ee 690 | Sumbul 2. we.eee eee
Spartcime veveeeceeseaeee 690 | Supra-renal extract .
Spartium scoparium ..... 691 | Symphoricarpus ..
Sphimeurus wae ee eee eee . 744 | Symphatum ......0.0..
Sriwcha os. cece eee eee «. 692 pyplahnum ...........
Spigel Mate veveeeeeee 6 GYR fF Sy ty giuM
Spuca. wee noes OOF
Spar uthes sabe eens 694 | ‘Labacum 725
Spirit gland quereus ... 694 | Tamus .... . 26
Sporatus glycer. met... . 353 | Tanacetum .. . 728
Sronaim tosta .. .. ...., OOF | Vannie acid, ............ 718
sulla vee eee te eeeeee «6 696 ) Taraxacum .........0006- 730
Stannum jiodatum ...... 609 | Tarentula Cubensis ...... 728
Stannum metallicum .... 698 | Tarentula Hispania ...... 729
Staphylocin ...... ...... G22 | Tartar emetic .......6066 67
a ysogria eee 699 ‘Tartaric, aud. seseeeeeees F381
i rn . 6. 702 | Tela arartea ..... sey 80
WA ve ee eee cence ee 702 | Taxus baceata ..... sevee 732
HE tnsonacia woe ae. 703 {| Tellurium .............. 732
Stigmata maydis ... .... 704 | Terebene . ....... : 735
Brillingia pene ene eeeeees 705 | Yerebinthina ..... ..... 734
Stovain ........0.08:  «. 252 | Terapina .......0--..00. 768
Stramonium .........005 . 708 | Testa preparata ......... 564
Streptuccocin .. « 623 | Tethalin ...........00.6- 597
mStrontia brom. . . 708 | Tetradymite .....,.....,.. 733.
itrontia darb. ... . 707 | Teucrium marum. ...... 735
wStrontia iodatum ........ 708 | Teucrium scorodonia ..., 736
LIST OF REMEDIES

PAGE
"pallium .........0. ee eee 736
‘Raspium ....... eeeeeeee 737
Aves scene eeeeeees 738
Tébainum ..........0065 589
Thridion ........0.000 739
Tiksinaminum env eesanes 740
Thaspi bursa ....eee sees 740
Thja 2... cece cece e reece 741
Thynol ... ..ceeeeee 587, 745
Thygus shee e eer eeeenee 745
Thygus gland .........- 747
Thyrfidine ...... ec eeeee 746
Tilia Buropoea ......00006 747
Tincttpa acris ..eeeeeeee - 210
Tinosypra.
Titan:

en eeereeeee 135
ae 714

. 752
752
753

; hgeee 137
otyl. (& N. T.) ...... 134
Prychnos Gaulth ...... .. 385
Trychnos gaultheriana ... 373
Frychosanthes .......... 769
Tuberculinum ........... 753
Turnera ..ecse cece cece 758
Turpenthum ............ 498
Tussilago farfara ........ 758
Lussilago fragrans ...... 758
Tussilago petasites ...... 758
Typha latif. ............ 407

PAGE
Ulmus oe. eee e cece eee 776
Upas antiaris ........... 759
Upas tiente ....... beeees 758
Uranium nitricum .. .... 739
5 OF 0 rr
Uric. acid. ........ seeeae
Urinum ...
Urotromn
Urtica c.cccsceveeeeeee » 769
Usnca ..ccecceee eeeeaee 761
Ustilago oo... cece eee eee 762
Uva ursi ........ eee seas 703

Vaccinium myrtyllus ..... 7

Vaccinum ..... ee ence eeee 704
Valeriana ..........5005. 704
Vanadium ..........505. 765
Vanillin ..... eee eeereeee 766
Variolinum ............ + 766
Veratrina .......ee seen es 648
Veratrinum vo... cece FOB
Veratrum album ......... ro7
Veratrum viride ......... 709
Verbascum ....... een eeee 771
Verbena .........--.000e a7?
Veronal ...... cece e eee 229
Vesicaria .........06. 192, 844
Vespa crabro .......605. 773
Viburnum opulus ........ 773
Viburnum prunifol ...... 774
Vinea minor ...... weeee 775
Vincetoxinum ......... oe 195
Viola odorata ........ wee 775
Viola tricolor ...... eeeee 777
Vipera ........0.. ceveey FaT
Viscum album ...... sees 778
Vitrum 1.0.0.0... 00. eeees 685
Woorari ... - eee eevee 290
Wyethia ....... eeneeeees 779
Xanthium ..........., vee 387
Xanthorrheaa ........6... 140
Xanthorrhiza ........... 140
1128

PAGE
Xanthoxylum .........6 780
Xerophyllum .,.......6+ . 782
Xiphosura ............ ». 461
X-Ray ....... ce eseeeeee . 783
Yerba buena ........ veee 507
Yerba Mansa ...... heeeee 60
Yerba santa ......... wee 314
Yohimbinum .......... oe 785
Yucca filamentosa ....... 786
Zea oo. cece cae eee te eeeee 704
Zea Italica ......-...005 762

Zincum aceticum ..... eee 789

LIST OF REMEDIES

. PAGE
Zincum ars. .......... vee 790
Zincum bromatum ....... 789
ZiMCUM 1... eee eee ees 786,
Zincum cyanatum ........ 79
Zincum metallicum ..... 78

Zincum muriaticum ...... 79
Zincum oxydatum ....... 7
Zincum phosphoricum .... 7

Zincum picricum ...... vee 7

Zincum sulphuricum ....,.
Zincum valerian ....... ee
Zingiber .......... se eeee

Zizia aurea (Thaspium).. |
